Weekly activity report no. 20071011.01 sequence no. 0003 week 1 MT

All of these reports are archived and will be available on my status
website, which is not running yet.  The website, when I get it going,
will display up-to-date status indications (green/yellow/red) of my
state in several key areas: coursework, schedule, funding, deliverables,
exams, and resources.  If anything goes yellow or red, you'll see it
quickly.  Deliverables I have promised by a particular date, as well as
resources that I'm waiting on or can't find, will be listed, and you can
drill down for historical information.  Think of it as your dashboard
instruments for keeping an eye on my operation.  I will provide a URI
soon along with a digital certificate so you can connect.  Hours on task
this week (scaffolding): 4 or 5.

Lectures: I am attending lectures on Functional Programming (Bird) and
Computer-Assisted Formal Verification (Melham).  I picked these courses
in consultation with Dr. Martin because the first one covers Haskell,
which I wanted to learn, and the second one covers SAT and model
checking, which I need to learn.  Both lectures are going fine.  Classes
and practicals will be starting up next week.  Hours on task this week:
about 6.

I attended the required Learning and Teaching seminar in the comlab this
week.  Hours on task: 2.5.

Independent Study: I want to take the Software Engineering department's
course in Specification and Design (SDE) which doesn't start until
November 19.  The prerequisite is Software Engineering Maths, which
isn't offered this term, but I discussed the content of Software
Engineering Maths with Dr. Martin and I think I can self-study the
material (Z notation) well-enough between now and November to
compensate.  I have bought a couple of books on Z (Blackwell's is an
awesome bookstore), and am starting to read.  I have the exam from last
term's Software Engineering Maths to figure my progress against.  Hours
on task this week: only about 2.

Plans: As I discussed with Dr. Martin early in the week, I want to try
for Transfer of Status early in 2008.

Registration: I need to provide to the Secretary for Graduate Studies a
plan for courses I intend to take for the rest of the terms this year.
I need to talk with Dr. Martin about exactly which courses I should take
in Hilary and Trinity terms.

Tuition and Fees: paid for this term today.

Upcoming Meetings: I have a meeting scheduled with Dr. Niki Trigoni on
Monday, to say hi.  Matriculation is the day after tomorrow.  I have
dinner with the Master of St. Cross next Friday.  I have a library
seminar to attend next Friday also.

Reading: Still reading Barnes's book on SPARK (2006).  Also reading
Tufte ("The Visual Display of Quantitative Information") which I found
at St. Cross library, and "At the Abyss: An Insider's History of the
Cold War" by Thomas C. Reed.  Hours spent on task: about 10.

St. Cross College: I went to Hall for the first time last night, and met
my Senior Mentor and St. Cross, Dr. Joanna Ashbourn.  After last night's
conversation, I am going to copy her also on these weekly status emails.

Other Projects: I have been asked to lunch with the St. Cross College
Archivist, and Dr. John Tiffany, about a question I had about the St.
Cross shield (heraldry).  There is actually a formal specification
aspect to all this---I'll tell you about it later.  Meanwhile, I need to
get access to the archives, which requires a letter from my supervisor,
so I will get that to Dr. Martin to sign.  Hours spent on task: 0 so far.

Office and Computer in the Comlab: I met John, my officemate, and found
out that I am in Room 426.  I will get a key for it tomorrow.

Outside work: I have joined two working groups of the Trusted Computing
Initiative organization (Authentication Working Group, and
Virtualization Platform Working Group) in order to participate and to
get access to TPM (Trusted Platform Module) chip specs and information.
 This is actually part of my day job.  Lockheed Martin hours billed this
week: 18 hours.

Upcoming Travel: I have to be out of the U.K. on business for a few days
during the first week of December.  I hope this won't interfere with
exams, but if it looks likely, I will start talking to people early
enough to schedule around it.

Joe Loughry
D.Phil PRS, dept. of Computer Science

CC: Andrew Martin <Andrew.Martin@comlab.ox.ac.uk> (supervisor)
    Niki Trigoni <Niki.Trigoni@comlab.ox.ac.uk> (advisor)
    Joanna Ashbourn <joanna.ashbourn@stx.ox.ac.uk> (senior mentor)
