Weekly activity report no. 20071018.01 sequence no. 0004 week 2 MT

All of these reports are archived and will be available on my status
website, which is not set up yet.  (It does exist in prototype, though!)
Hours on task this week (scaffolding): none

Lectures: I am keeping up with Functional Programming (FP) and Computer-
Aided Formal Verification (CAFV) lectures.  I missed the first practical
though, because of having to take my daughter to hospital unexpectedly.
I plan to have the work caught up before Monday, however.  Hours on task
this week: 3.

I have scheduled time to attend Comlab seminars every Friday afternoon;
also, I am planning to attend the Donald Knuth lecture next week (of
course!) and Rod Chapman's lecture from Praxis.  Hours spent on task so
far: 1.5.

Regular Weekly Meetings: I need to start having regular weekly meetings
with Dr. Martin.  This week was scheduled, but I had to cancel.  This
will start next week now.  The primary topics for the upcoming meeting
will be:

  1. Reading plan to get ready for Software Engineering Maths in Nov.

  2. Initial planning for my Transfer Report, to happen in 2008.

Dr. Martin has started a software engineering Security Reading Group,
which I will start participating in next week.

HOLD-OVER FROM LAST WEEK: Registration: I need to provide to the
Secretary for Graduate Studies a plan for courses I intend to take for
the rest of the terms this year.  I need to talk with Dr. Martin about
exactly which courses I should take in Hilary and Trinity terms.

Completed Meetings: I met with Dr. Trigoni and introduced myself this
week.  I also met with Drs. Tiffany and Savage-Smith at lunch and we
talked about the heraldry of St. Cross.  Two planned meetings with Dr.
Martin yesterday were postponed by me.  Hours spent on task: about 3.

Upcoming Events: I am scheduled to have dinner with the Master of St.
Cross College on Friday evening.  I have a required library induction
seminar on Friday, and the regular weekly Comlab lecture also.

Tuition and Fees: paid for this term today.

Reading: Still reading Barnes's book on SPARK (2006).  Also reading
Tufte ("The Visual Display of Quantitative Information"), Bird
("Introduction to Functional Programming using Haskell"), and Lightfoot
("Formal Specification Using Z").  Hours spent on task: about 4.

Seminars: I attended the regular weekly Comlab talk last Friday, and
also participated by telephone in a three-hour seminar on "Threat
Management" which featured four speakers, primarily oriented toward
defending against targeted malware attack.

Outside work: Lockheed Martin hours billed this week: 19.5 hours.

Joe Loughry
DPhil PRS, dept. of Computer Science

CC: Andrew Martin <Andrew.Martin@comlab.ox.ac.uk> (supervisor)
   Niki Trigoni <Niki.Trigoni@comlab.ox.ac.uk> (advisor)
   Joanna Ashbourn <joanna.ashbourn@stx.ox.ac.uk> (senior mentor)
