Weekly activity report no. 20071025.01 sequence no. 0005 week 3 MT

I promised before to keep you informed early if I were to start missing
deadlines or falling behind (that is the purpose of the status reporting
webpage, still not set up, but I will get it done as soon as I get
caught up), so I am trying to hold to that promise.

Status for this week: struggling to catch up after missing a couple of
lectures in Functional Programming and Computer-Aided Formal
Verification (due to previously described hospital visit and follow-up
appointments).  Miranda, at least, is doing fine now---she's back to
climbing on the furniture---but I have some catching-up to do.

Here are my current priorities:

Priority 1: Computer-Aided Formal Verification (CAFV): I missed the
first class assignment (Dr. Ashbourn, you will undoubtedly see the
report of that when it comes to the college).  I have spoken with the
lecturer, Prof. Melham, about it, and my plan is to complete the
assignment anyway.  It's not a matter of grades, but rather I need to
learn this material (tightly related to model checking, which is a very
important thing I need to learn now).  Upshot: I should be able to get
completely caught up before Monday.

Priority 2: Functional Programming (FP): Due to a time conflict, I can't
attend the scheduled class, although I have not missed any lectures or
practicals.  I am a little behind in the practicals and reading, but I
will have that caught up by tomorrow.  Upshot: I am nearly caught up
with this one.

Priority 3: Software Engineering Maths: I am way behind on my reading.
I must get caught up on this as soon as possible, because I have only
two or three weeks before the SDE module (intensive one-week course that
depends on Software Engineering Maths) starts.  Upshot: Starting Monday
(after I have caught up with FP and CAFV), I will get cracking on
Software Engineering Maths.

Priority 4: I

Other activities that happened this past week:

Besides regular courses, I attended several special lectures at the
Comlab, including Donald Knuth (very exciting to meet the author of TeX
ask him a question about Volume 4), Rod Chapman from Praxis
(inspiring!), a couple of presentations by other DPhil students, and the
Security Engineering Reading Group organized by Dr. Martin in his office.

Afterward, I talked with Dr. Martin for a little while about plans and
directions.  I think I very much want to use SPARK Ada for my thesis,
but I don't know anymore what my thesis should be about.  (I used to
know, but since then I've learned some, and now I don't know as much as
I used to.)  Dr. Martin gave me a new book to read (David Grawrock, the
Intel Safer Computing Initiative) which looks extremely interesting and
I am going to finish it just as soon as I get caught up with lectures
and with Software Engineering Maths first.

Summary: I am behind where I want to be, running hard to catch up, and
feeling like I ought to know what my thesis topic is already, but I don't.

P.S.  Ideas for the future: here is a conference that I'd like to go to,
but definitely do not have time for:

**********Conferences and Events**********

SIGADA Conference on the Ada Programming Language

ACM SIGAda 2007

high-integrity, secure and safe systems software.

Tutorials will cover Ada Web Services, Security by
Construction, and Languages for Safety-Critical Software. Scheduled
keynote speakers are Joe Jarzombek, Department of Homeland Security;
Jeff O'Leary, Federal Aviation Administration; and Rod Chapman, Praxis
High Integrity.

SIGAda 2007 takes place November 4 to 9 in Fairfax, Virginia, and is
sponsored by ACM's Special Interest Group on Ada.
(http://www.sigada.org/conf/sigada2007/)

-Joe Loughry
