Weekly activity report no. 20071115.1419 sequence no. 0008 week 6 MT

Primary activity this week: attending Safety Critical Systems (SCS) course all
week.  The instructor was outstanding and I thoroughly enjoyed the course.  I am
looking forward to completing the assessment.

Planned activity next week: attending the Specification and Design (SDE) course
all week.  I have been reviewing Z and predicate logic prior to the course.

Upcoming activity: Design for Security (DES) course in December.  I have got the
reading materials to review before the course starts.

Meetings:

1. I met with Dr. Martin yesterday and asked for some advice.  The problem with
advice is that you don't really know you need it until you've had some
experience.  My experience is that I was getting highly stressed about exams
coming up---particularly about Computer Aided Formal Verification---and feeling
like I don't understand how the University works.  Dr. Martin gave me some good
advice and explained a few things:

  a. I ought to stress less about exams; concentrate on learning the knowledge I
need for the DPhil and for writing a transfer report.

  b. It's all right to sit in on lots of different taught courses; it is not
necessary to take the final exam unless you want it for credit.

  c. My programme does not have required core courses.  I am required to
complete approximately four MSc-level courses during the first year (before I
can write the transfer report), but it is not necessary to do them all at once.
 Dr. Martin recommended that I focus on Software Engineering courses, and not to
stress out too much about CAFV.  If I am learning some useful new predicate
logic skills from it, great.  I should continue attending lectures and keep up.
 But if it's stressing me out and I don't feel like I've 'got' the course well
enough to take the final exam, then don't.  I can sit in on the taught course
again next term, or the term after that.  The Software Engineering courses (such
as the Safety Critical Systems course that I am in this week) are sufficient to
satisfy the requirement (once I have enough of them, obviously).  In summary, I
am still on track to satisfy the coursework requirement, and I don't need to be
under quite so much stress in what is only Week 6 of my first term.

  d. No one completely understands how the University works.  This is normal.

  e. Final projects for Software Engineering courses are due in approximately
six weeks, not immediately after the end of the course.

  f. Plan for next term: I should spend time on SPARK.  I am looking forward to
this very much.

Summary: I am going to continue attending the two other taught courses that
started, but relax a bit and drop the exams.  It is more important to focus on
acquiring knowledge at this point.  Keep learning, but concentrate on the three
Software Engineering modules, at least for Michaelmas Term.

2. I met with Dr. Ashbourn at St Cross, and promised to read the information
about funding sources that she provided.  I am planning to apply for student
loans and Dr. Ashbourn wants me to find and use non-repayment-required funding
sources first, which seems quite reasonable.

Books I am reading: _Generating_Software_From_Specifications_ (Kastens, Sloane,
and Waite: Jones and Bartlett, 2007); and _Programming_in_Haskell_ (Hutton:
Cambridge Univ. Press, 2007).

All: Thanks for your time reading this long and rambling status report.  I feel
better now.

-- 
Joe Loughry
DPhil PRS, Computer Science
St. Cross College
