Weekly activity report no. 20080509.1036 sequence no. 0032 week 3 TT

I met with Dr Martin after Reading Group on Wednesday, showed off the current
iteration of thesis problem statement.

Thesis:

The way that IT security evaluations of existing systems are done today is all
wrong.  This applies not just to the Common Criteria, but to U.S. DoD and IC C&A
processes in general: (DODIIS, DITSCAP/DIACAP, SABI/TSABI, CDMO, and so forth).
 The current way things are done, starting with an ST honestly describing the
TOE with all its warts, is a recipe for delay in the validation process and
disaster in evaluation.  The way to make the process work is to write an
evaluatable ST first, and then transform that into an
HLD/LLD/security-policy/correspondence-model to match the ST without over-promising.

Outline of the draft Transfer Report:

I. Introduction and history of the case study (motivation)

II. Literature survey

III. Methodology

    A. The results of doing it wrong (anonymised case study)

        i. Ground rules, including interviews, anonymisation, handling of
proprietary and classified information, and university research review board
approvals that will be required.

    B. Plan for doing it right (theoretical component)

        i. Example of using the Single Transformable Description (SXD) to encode
a validatable ST and to show step-by-step how it can be transformed into artefacts.

    C. Research sources

        i. C&A standards documents

        ii. CC-CMTS archive

        iii. Project records and participant interviews

        iv. The literature

    D. Research methods

IV. Research Plan

    A. Cost, schedule, deliverables, criteria, plan

NOTES: I have dug up a few old transfer reports from previous years to use as a
model, but haven't got read them yet.  So sections of the outline likely will
move around a bit.  The intent, however, is to be able to present a solid work
plan for the next year, describing exactly what work needs to be accomplished,
what the success criteria are, estimated schedule, and---especially---where the
weak spots are in the methodology and plan.

-- 
Joe Loughry
DPhil PRS, Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
