Weekly activity report no. 20080905.2020 sequence no. 0048 week 8+12 TT

I was at the Third European Trusted Infrastructure Summer School (ETISS) all
week.  It was excellent: I came in as a relatively know-nothing TPM beginner; by
the end of the week I had hands-on experience with the hardware, knew the
designers by sight, and had learned what they think are the hard problems.

The laboratory exercises for students were the biggest surprise: they will be
highly useful to me.  The demo of booting multiple virtual Linux OS instances
measured by the TPM chip in hardware is something I can take home with me to
Lockheed Martin.  They will be EXTREMELY interested.  Later that night I
experimented with the lab CD-ROM on my laptops at home, and was able to use it
to activate and take ownership of my own TPM chip, which was very cool.  John
Lyle's disc worked even on my weird milspec Panasonic.

Bob Thibadeau convinced me about encryption in disk drives.  I was sceptical
before, but not any more.  Paul Congdon was excellent on networks; he really
knows his subject.  David Grawrock, Boris Balacheff, and Ian Levy are just plain
great speakers.  I sat next to Graeme Proudler most of the time, and learned a
lot from him.  All of the speakers were excellent.  While it's not connected to
my thesis topic directly, what I learned during the week is directly relevant to
my day job, and I thank Dr Martin for allowing his students to all sit in on it.
 It was an intense week, a tonne of information.  The pub quiz questions were
diabolically difficult.

In other news, I will start working on my transfer report again and have a first
draft soon.  I got some good ideas during the week that I want to include.  I'm
going to submit an abstract of part of my thesis topic to the Comlab Student
Conference (abstract is due no later than Sunday).  I am also going to put
myself on the schedule for Reading Group to give a presentation in front of the
group.

Estimated time to completion of transfer report first draft: 12th September.

-- 
Joe Loughry
DPhil PRS, Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
