Weekly activity report no. 20090409.2217 (GMT+1) sequence no. 0079, week -2 TT

I met with Dr Martin today for an hour in his office.  We talked about Trust
2009 and some of the contacts with people that I made during the conference.  In
particular I spoke with Professor Cynthia Irvine of the Naval Postgraduate
School; she was one of the authors of the Separation Kernel Protection Profile
(SKPP) and a valuable source of information related to my thesis.  I also met
David Kleidermacher, CTO of Green Hills Software, also highly relevant to my
research.

One of the things Dr Martin and I discussed today was how many data points I
need to prove (or disprove) my hypothesis.  So far I have only one---clearly not
enough, but the SKPP and the successful evaluation of INTEGRITY at EAL6+ are two
more data points that I can get access to with fair ease.

I think I made a good impression on Prof Irvine; she pointed me to an old
technical report (136 pages) of which I was not aware, and I followed up after
our conversation with an email.  I also followed up on my conversation with Mr
Kleidermacher of Green Hills Software, in which I seriously suggested that a
book needs to be written about their experience.  It could be written as a
cracking adventure story, like Tracy Kidder did in _The Soul of a New Machine_
and Richard Rhodes did with _The Making of the Atomic Bomb_.  Both of those were
very good books.  Mr Kleidermacher in turn (perhaps jokingly) told me I should
write it.  I've been thinking about that, and today I discussed it with Dr
Martin.  I don't really have time for another project right now.  But Dr Martin
asked me whether the necessary research for that book---at least in the early
stages---might not be relevant to my thesis.  Dr Martin suggested I should
follow-up with Green Hills Software and request access, under the auspices of
academic research.  I immediately sent a carefully worded email to Mr
Kleidermacher.  He hasn't responded yet but he's probably still travelling.

Dr Martin and I also talked about the practice in Chemistry of staking a claim
in print to a particular area of research, and whether it might be a good idea
to do something like that in my case.  Not to preclude being scooped, but to
bring other potential sources of information out of the woodwork who might then
contact me.  We talked about the best sort of journal to do that in, and talked
about getting the Security Reading Group to have a discussion of what the best
journals and conferences are currently in this field.

Dr Martin suggested an interesting short paper topic, relevant to my research: a
comparison of CVE reports to Common Criteria evaluated products---is there a
correlation?  Finally we talked about college and department support for
fieldwork and travel to conferences.  Prof Irvine strongly suggested that I get
to the International Common Criteria Conference, which she said is always held
in exotic and expensive locations.  I'm going to look at past proceedings of
those conferences for now.

Next week we will not have our regular meeting so that I might concentrate on
studying for the ISSEP exam.

Upcoming deadlines and events:

10th April: Good Friday
12th April: Easter Sunday
17th April: submission deadline for 2009 NSPW
24th April: St Cross College tour of Stonehenge
25th April: ISSEP exam, London
26th April: Trinity term begins
28--30 April: Radiant Mercury User's Group (RMUG) meeting
30th April: Infosec show (all day) in London; I am helping out

-- 
Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
