Weekly activity report no. 20090521.2113 (GMT+1) sequence no. 0085, week 4 TT

Donald Knuth gave a talk at the Computing Laboratory today.  The permutation
described in his talk was illustrated with a nifty card trick; when I asked a
question about it (I was incautious enough to be sitting in the front row),
Professor Knuth handed me the deck of cards and told me to try it out in front
of the whole room.  I was sure I had a counterexample, but it didn't work.
Professor Bird thought there was one too, but I convinced him eventually that it
could not work.  Afterwards I spent time in the library attempting to work out
more counterexamples, but no matter how you do it, the permutation forces the
answer to come out the same way.  (It is independent of the size of the deck.)
Neat trick.

I am working on two things this week: first, my methodology chapter.  I met with
Dr Martin on Tuesday; he gave me advice on writing, organising thoughts, and
advice for getting unformed ideas down on paper.  I am following that advice and
will bring a methodology chapter to our next meeting.  The second thing I am
working on is a mid-point progress report of my DPhil research so far.  This is
not required but I think it will be a good way of organising my schedule for the
next six weeks, six months, and the next year.

Next regular weekly meeting with Dr Martin: 27th May.

Books I am reading: Bock (2001), `Getting It Right: {R\&D} Methods in Science
and Engineering'; Phillips and Pugh (2007), `How to Get a {PhD}, 4th edition';
Shasha and Lazare (1985), `Out of their minds: the lives and discoveries of 15
great computer scientists'; Dybvig (2003), `The {Scheme} Programming Language:
{ANSI Scheme}'.

Upcoming deadlines and events:

27th May: Prof Kwiatkowska's briefing on confirmation of status process
29th May: Andy's viva
22nd-26th June: Requirements Engineering (REN) software engineering module

TO-DO:

1. Methodology chapter
2. Mid-point progress report
3. Reading
4. Contact individuals to schedule interviews for case studies
5. Contact Dr Levy again to try to set up an appointment
6. Verify that I am enrolled in the REN module.

-- 
Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
