Weekly activity report no. 20090529.0109 (GMT+1) sequence no. 0086, week 5 TT

I met with Dr Martin for our regular weekly meeting on Wednesday.  I showed a
partial outline of the methodology chapter and asked some questions about how to
proceed.  We discussed my methodology and about putting a schedule in it to plan
for waiting on people to respond to my surveys for the case studies.  I don't
want to waste time.  Dr Martin expressed some concern about my getting
appointments to talk to UK-based people before I have to move, especially if
they are busy; I need to get going on that as soon as possible (see positive
results reported below).  I was thinking of holding off talking with Dr Ian Levy
until later, because he's important in the UK government and I don't want to
waste his time before I get some experience doing real interviews.  But I
suppose not all plans work out.  He will actually be one of the first persons I
talk to.

We talked about how to continue our regular meetings while I am in the USA,
beginning two months from now.  Phone calls seem like the best option as they
will keep me motivated and preclude procrastination.  Dr Martin said I can call
into Reading Group on the speaker phone---which I would very much like to do, to
stay involved.  We talked about using Skype and handling time zones.

I want to arrange a field trip by the Security Reading Group to the museum at
Bletchley Park now that warmer weather has arrived.  I will bring maps and some
information to the next reading group.

Dr Martin has got me planning for Confirmation of Status already, still a year
away but a hard deadline.  After our meeting, I went to Professor Kwiatkowska's
briefing on it.  During the next 12 months, I need to aim for having 3 to 5
high-quality papers in peer-reviewed conferences, on my results.  If I do that,
then the Confirmation of Status report can be only five pages long, citing my
published papers.  That should virtually guarantee a successful Confirmation of
Status viva.  After that, plan 6 months for writing up.  I am figuring out a
detailed plan and schedule right now based on THESE GOALS.  That plan and
schedule will appear in the mid-point progress report that I will also get done
soon.

I promised to expand the methodology outline to 5--6 pages by next Wednesday and
to contact Dr Levy by email immediately.  I did contact him successfully and
received a reply asking for some documentation (a scanned copy of the letter
from Lockheed Martin legal department saying that they are cooperating with my
research).  I will send the scanned letter later today.

Next meeting: 10:30 a.m. on Wednesday, 3rd June 2009.

Upcoming deadlines and events:

29th May (today): Andy's viva
21st June: HALF-WAY POINT
24th June: encaenia
22nd-26th June: Requirements Engineering (REN) software engineering module

TO-DO:

1. Methodology chapter
2. Mid-point progress report
3. Reading
4. Email scanned permission letter to Dr Levy (later today)
5. Verify that I am enrolled in the REN module.

-- 
Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
