Weekly activity report no. 20090604.2246 (GMT+1) sequence no. 0087, week 6 TT

Dr Martin and I met for our regular weekly meeting on Wednesday.  I received the
course materials for the Requirements Engineering course.  I have been in
contact by email with Ian Levy of CESG; he asked for additional information
which I have sent.  I have identified one new person I want to interview in the UK.

I am re-planning my methodology and schedule for the next 13 months around the
specific goal of getting four papers published in high-quality conferences by
the time of Confirmation of Status at the end of my ninth term.  DGS gave a talk
last week at which she more or less told us second-years the formula for
success: do that and your Confirmation of Status report can be brief, merely
citing those papers.  Dr Martin advised me to plan each paper as a chapter, and
concurred that assessors can't really argue with peer-reviewed chapters, so take
advantage of that.  I listed what I thought would be the topics of each
paper/chapter:

1. Problem and motivation.  Why this is an interesting problem and needs to be
solved.

2. Proposed solution: what is my thesis?

3. Results 1: case studies

4. Results 2: tool and validation.

The first one is based on a talk I have already given twice at seminars, so I
should be able to write that paper quickly and get it submitted to a journal
soon.  I have a journal in mind: Crosstalk (published by US Air Force; I think
it's peer reviewed but I will check.  I also want to look at recent issues for
length and style clues.  I think this journal is a good match because the
readership is familiar with the software products that I am studying for one of
my case studies and has a keen interest in certification and accreditation of
related systems.

Before writing the first paper, my current task is to finish outlining the
research methodology---around the new schedule of four peer-reviewed chapters in
13 months.  I will put the same schedule information into the mid-point progress
report that I intend to write (mostly for myself, but also to remind my employer
that I exist and why they should keep funding me).

Later, in Security Reading Group, John, Cornelius, Dr Martin and I talked about
upcoming topics for the summer.  We talked about what are the best conferences,
and John described some new results.  We talked about whether Reading Group
ought to examine an entire conference proceedings at once, observing the mix of
papers and perhaps everybody taking one paper to introduce.  I proposed a field
trip to visit the National Museum of Computing at Bletchley Park (25 miles NE of
Oxford).  I am arranging the details and it looks likely to happen on Wednesday,
8th July.

Books I have been reading:

Bock (1999) is all about methodology: specifically, how to ensure that by the
end of the project you have significant, defensible, replicable results.  I am
following the author's advice on laboratory notebooks.

Dr Martin is on travel for the next two weeks, so I will report by email.

TO-DO:

1. Methodology chapter outline, schedule for research and 4 papers;
2. Arrange interviews with 3 people in UK (Levy, Bowman, Cooper);
3. Mid-point progress report;
4. Cognitive Cross-Domain Information Sharing quarterly progress report (for
Lockheed).

Upcoming deadlines and events:

15th June: quarterly progress report for Lockheed is due for internal review;
21st June: HALF-WAY POINT (end of term 6);
24th June: encaenia;
22nd-26th June: Requirements Engineering software engineering module (all week);
8th July: field trip to Station X;
28th July: moving day;
1st September 2009: plan to have first chapter peer-reviewed;
1st January 2010: plan to have second chapter peer-reviewed;
1st April 2010: plan to have third paper peer-reviewed;
15th June 2010: plan to have fourth paper peer-reviewed; Confirmation of Status
report due.

-- 
Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
