Weekly activity report no. 20090618.2211 (GMT+1) sequence no. 0089, week 8 TT

Flexibility and adaptability are key.  I have had opportunities to practise both
this week.  First, I finally have an appointment scheduled with Dr Ian Levy at
CESG on 29th June.  Since he is a busy person and important---both in the
government and to my research---I was hoping to get some practice interviewing
other participants in my case studies before going in to see him, but it didn't
work out that way; I have to interview him first.  In a way, the timing is
fortuitous because Dr Levy's opinions are crucial background for the first paper
I want to publish.  So therefore---re-planning again---I will concentrate on
trying to have a rough draft of that paper ready in a week's time to check some
facts with Dr Levy and get his opinion about the failed Common Criteria
evaluation.  I will plan on having specific questions ready to ask when I go in
to talk with him, along with a printed agenda for the meeting.  Visit request is
being processed by security.

Next week I will be in the Requirements Engineering software engineering course
all week, per recommendation of one of my transfer viva assessors.  I am doing
the pre-readings for that course and the pre-assignment this week.

I introduced a paper at Reading Group this week from the 2008 Int'l Common
Criteria Conference.  It was an interesting paper because it shows the
negotiations that occur between a software developer and the CLEF [testing lab]
during the security evaluation process.  Reading between the lines of this paper
was interesting because I could recognise some of the same discussions Lockheed
Martin had with a different CLEF.  In other news, I found two other groups doing
research similar to mine.  Not completely identical to my research, but both of
these groups propose using an XML database with XSLT
transformations from XML into work packages for Common Criteria evaluation.  At
least one group is working from the perspective of a CLEF wanting to use this
method to streamline their work flow.  I'm not worried because I'm planning to
use a different method, and they don't have my case studies.  But I will
certainly study their solutions and cite their work in the introduction to mine.
 I should also look at using XSLT which I wasn't planning to use, but perhaps I
ought to, since everyone else seems to use it.  I want to use graphviz for
generating tree diagrams; pic is good for flows but it doesn't lay out trees
automatically.

I attended the DPhil writing workshop in the comlab on Thursday.

Next meeting with Dr Martin is scheduled for Tuesday, 23rd June at 12.15.

Status of parallel tasks:

1. Work on draft of paper no. 1;
2. Prepare for REN course module next week;
3. Finish methodology chapter outline;
4. Update wiki with Bletchley Park maps, trip information, and schedule;
5. Write mid-point progress report (due 21st June);
6. Finish writing Cognitively Assisted Cross-Domain Information Sharing (CACDIS)
quarterly progress report (for the Air Force).

Books I have been reading this week:

none (still on hold is Bock's book (1999) on methodology);

TO DO:

1. CACDIS report (tomorrow);
2. First paper draft (over the weekend);
3. Detailed plan for next 12 months (needed for following task);
4. Mid-point progress report (due 21st June);
5. Methodology chapter outline;
6. Reading plan for going through my historical project records;
7. Makefile is getting awfully hairy and needs rewriting;

Upcoming deadlines and events:

 - 21st June: HALF-WAY POINT (end of term 6);

 - 21st June: GalaxyZoo meet-up at the Royal Oak;

 - 23rd June: meeting with Dr Martin 12.15;

 - 24th June: encaenia;

 - 22nd-26th June: Requirements Engineering module (all week);

 - 8th July: field trip to Station X;

 - 28th July: moving day;

 - 1st September 2009: plan to have first chapter peer-reviewed;

 - 1st January 2010: plan to have second chapter peer-reviewed;

 - 1st April 2010: plan to have third paper peer-reviewed;

 - 15th June 2010: plan to have fourth paper peer-reviewed; Confirmation of
Status report due.

-- 
Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
