Weekly activity report no. 20090625.2238 (GMT+1) sequence no. 0090, week 8+1 TT

I have been in the Requirements Engineering (REN) softeng module all week.  It
is a good class and well worth my time.  I learnt some specific techniques that
will be useful in my thesis research.  The lecturers have even spent extra time
coaching me on some other techniques from their fields of speciality that I can
use; e.g., Professor Luff told me to look at how historians analyse documents to
figure out what was happening when those documents were written.  Together with
the practice I've gotten this week on interviewing, getting access, and how to
make effective questionnaires, the whole week has been valuable.

I met with Dr Martin on Tuesday for our regular supervisor meeting.  We went
over some reasons why the planned interview with Dr Levy was quashed by CESG,
and how I might be able to recover from that.  We went over my plans for the
summer and my list of tasks.  I reported that I feel I am making good progress,
working hard, although mostly on small (but necessary) things last week so I
don't have much in the way of visible results to show for it.  I feel I am
making good progress toward my degree goal.

Next meeting: Wednesday, 1st July 2009 after reading group.

TO DO:

1. Work on draft of first paper, edit it, and submit!
2. Finish methodology chapter outline;
3. Write mid-point progress report;
4. Plan interviews, ethnomethodological techniques, questionnaire;
5. Reading plan for going through my historical records;
6. Fix broken makefiles.

Books I want to finish reading soon: Bock (1999) on methodology;

Upcoming deadlines and events:

 - 8th July: field trip to Station X;

 - 28th July: moving day;

 - 1st September 2009: plan to have first chapter peer-reviewed;

 - 1st January 2010: plan to have second chapter peer-reviewed;

 - 1st April 2010: plan to have third paper peer-reviewed;

 - 15th June 2010: plan to have fourth paper peer-reviewed; Confirmation of
Status report due.

-- 
Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
