Weekly activity report no. 20090702.2212 (GMT+1) sequence no. 0091, week 8+2 TT

I met with Dr Martin on Wednesday for our regular weekly meeting.  We looked at
sample issues of the journal \emph{Crosstalk} and I asked some questions about
editorial boards and peer review.  Dr Martin advised me to write the editor of
the journal and request information about length and format requirements, then
send the editor my abstract.

The requirements engineering course last week was unlike any other requirements
training I have seen before.  In that it dovetailed well with previous training
because it did not repeat anything.  I got several useful new techniques out of
the course that I can put to work immediately.  It was a worthwhile course to take.

We talked about the most recent email from Dr Ian Levy of CESG.  I want to infer
from it that official activity is still going on, although Dr Levy won't say.
Dr Martin is less inclined to infer that.  I believe I can find out some more by
asking other people I am in contact with, specifically whether they have heard
about or suspect anything official still going on.

Field trip is still on for next week; I managed to secure a guided tour for our
group from the former director of the museum.  Maps and drivers are being
arranged for next Wednesday.  So far, seven people have said they are going.

I went over my task list with Dr Martin to prioritise things.  I promised to
have a draft of the first journal paper ready for him to read in one week.  He
mentioned my moving house and cautioned me not to let the methodology chapter
get lost in the shuffle and not get done.  I promised to have a draft of that
chapter written before moving day (28th July).  Dr Martin showed me a new
feature of Google Calendar: how to use a task list with the calendar.  I am
going to try that right away.  Since starting to use it a few weeks ago on my
supervisor's advice I am totally dependent on Google Calendar now.  Next meeting
scheduled for Thursday, 9th July at 11:00 a.m.

Task List:

1. Finish draft of first paper (currently 16 pages, needs to be shortened to 5)
in one week.

2. Contact journal editor; request submissions guidelines; send abstract.

3. Methodology chapter next (due before 28th July).

4. Write mid-point progress report.

5. Make schedule for interviews, questionnaire, reading plan, research plan,
writing plan.

6. Write questions for interviews and questionnaire.

7. Lockheed work: programme manager wants a detailed schedule for third quarter
2009 (must be done by Monday 6th July).  I will do that on the weekend.

Reading is currently on hold while I catch up on writing.

Upcoming deadlines and events:

 - 8th July: field trip to Station X;

 - 9th July: first paper draft to Dr Martin.

 - 28th July: moving day; methodology chapter draft to Dr Martin.

 - 1st September 2009: plan to have first chapter peer-reviewed;

 - 1st January 2010: plan to have second chapter peer-reviewed;

 - 1st April 2010: plan to have third paper peer-reviewed;

 - 15th June 2010: plan to have fourth paper peer-reviewed; Confirmation of
Status report due.

-- 
Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
