Weekly activity report no. 20090709.1959 (GMT+1) sequence no. 0092, week 8+3 TT

The Security Reading Group field trip to Station X (Bletchley Park) on Wednesday
was a great success.  A group photo was taken in front of the Turing Bombe and
the Colossus Mk II.  We saw the room where Alan Turing worked on ciphers and
almost touched the high speed paper tapes whizzing through his machine (not
recommended unless you want to lose a finger to paper cuts).  I will post some
pictures on a web page soon.

In our regular weekly meeting today, Dr Martin and I talked about the first
paper I am writing to introduce my thesis problem to a wider audience.  He gave
me some good advice on how to say it, validated a couple of ideas I had, and
listened while I tried to articulate what it is I want to explain.  I did not
have the first draft of that paper finished this week as planned, but I think I
can do so before our next meeting.  The missing piece I needed was a figure at
the beginning of the paper to illustrate the overlapping and interlocking
relationships.  I will base the rest of the paper around that figure, and also
follow Dr Martin's advice in the conclusion.  We talked about writing style and
presentation; I am going to try using an idea borrowed from Victorian novels
that is nonetheless ideal for presenting some information I need to convey.  I
think it will work.

Plan for the next week is to finish the paper and abstract; my remaining plans
to finish the Methodology chapter before I leave for America does not change.

I was not satisfied with the progress I made last week; I must do better next
week.  Part of the problem was my manager at Lockheed who called an urgent
meeting last week to demand a detailed plan for the next three months because he
felt he was not managing us closely enough.  We [Jeff, the project manager at
work, and I] wrote the plan for him but it took all weekend.  It affects my
thesis only to the extent that with my boss on the warpath I have to be more
careful not to annoy him.  It is, however, under control.

I started doing some experiments on comparing different encodings of the Common
Criteria to choose the best one for the purpose.  For now I am going to put that
on hold whilst I finish the paper and methodology chapter, then pick up those
experiments again in about three weeks.

I got a call out of the past regarding an old paper I wrote years ago on
something in set theory.  A researcher at another university found a copy of the
unfinished paper and says it's the solution to a problem he has in mathematics.
 He wanted to know if the paper had ever been published [no] and if not could he
help with finishing it, because he has an application for the algorithm in the
paper.  We are going to work together on it and publish the paper in a
mathematics journal.

Next supervisor meeting is scheduled for 16th July at 11.00 a.m.

Task List:

1. Draw new figure for paper and finish paper and abstract by next week.

2. Get paper into prepublication review queue (should only take about two weeks).

3. Contact journal editor; request submissions guidelines; send abstract to editor.

4. Methodology chapter next (due before 28th July).

5. Write mid-point progress report.

6. Make schedule for interviews, questionnaire, reading plan, research plan,
writing plan; write questions for interviews and questionnaire.

Reading is currently on hold while I catch up on writing.

Upcoming deadlines and events:

 - 16th July: first paper draft to Dr Martin.

 - 28th July: moving day; methodology chapter draft to Dr Martin.

 - 1st September 2009: plan to have first chapter peer-reviewed by journal;

 - 1st January 2010: plan to have second chapter peer-reviewed;

 - 1st April 2010: plan to have third paper peer-reviewed;

 - 15th June 2010: plan to have fourth paper peer-reviewed; Confirmation of
Status report due.

-- 
Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
