Weekly activity report no. 20090716.2042 (GMT+1) sequence no. 0093, week 8+4 TT

I met with Dr Martin today for our regular weekly meeting.  The paper for the
journal Crosstalk is still too long; I have to cut it from 5300 words to 3000
words and draw two figures in PostScript.  I will send a PDF of the shortened
paper to Dr Martin before our next meeting.  It is important for me to resist my
inclination to try to make it perfect.  However, there is one part where I am
trying to describe why something occurred and I am finding out what I really
don't know.  I need to think about that part of the paper some more.

I brought up moving in a couple of weeks; we talked about plans for carrying on
meetings over the telephone.  I will send PDF files a few days ahead.  For
regular meetings, the telephone will work although Skype is better for Reading
Group meetings since it has speaker phone functionality.  We talked about
whether video (Skype) is valuable.  I will test video from Colorado as soon as I
have broadband running.  I will share my Google calendar so Dr Martin can see my
schedule and what I am working on.

For the rest of the week, finish the draft paper, then start on methodology
chapter.  I still plan to have that finished before I leave.  Also before I
leave, I want to visit Andy Cooper in Cambridge.

We talked about some current areas of research, including Joanna Rutkowska's
attacks on VMs and layers below, electronic passports, PASS (RFID) card attacks
in San Francisco, homomorphic encryption at IBM, clever banking trojan horses,
and secure protocols.  I asked Dr Martin some questions about how to lecture,
and got some good ideas in return.  (Look at the eyes of people listening to
tell if they are understanding; look for frowns if you said something
interesting.  Break up the discussion by asking questions of the listeners; if
you make them figure out the standard solutions to a problem, they will
eventually realise what they don't know, and thereby appreciate the best
solution more than they would if you only told them about it.)

Next meeting is scheduled for Thursday, 23rd July at 11:30 a.m.  I will bring my
schedule for the next six months including MILESTONES to review.

Task List:

1. Cut paper to 3000 words; draw two figures in PostScript; finish abstract and
conclusions.

2. Get paper into prepublication (security and IP) review queue.  Send abstract
to journal editor when okay to.

3. Methodology chapter next (due before 28th July).

4. Write mid-point progress report.

5. Make schedule for interviews, questionnaire, reading plan, research plan,
writing plan; write questions for interviews and questionnaire.

Reading is still on hold while I catch up on writing.  I have a new book to
read: `Why New Systems Fail' (Simon, 2009).

Upcoming deadlines and events:

 - 20th July: PDF of paper to Dr Martin by today.

 - 23rd July: meeting with Dr Ashbourn; supervisor meeting.

 - 24th July: meet with Andy Cooper (schedule)

 - 27th July: moving day; methodology chapter draft due.

 - 1st September 2009: plan to have first chapter peer-reviewed by journal;

 - 1st January 2010: plan to have second chapter peer-reviewed;

 - 1st April 2010: plan to have third paper peer-reviewed;

 - 15th June 2010: plan to have fourth paper peer-reviewed; Confirmation of
Status report due.

-- 
Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
