Weekly activity report no. 20090806.2126 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0096, week 8+7 TT

I met for the second time by video teleconference with Dr Martin for our regular
weekly meeting yesterday morning.  I am going to have to set up a semi-permanent
`TV studio' for this in a quiet part of the house with better speakers and a
fixed mount for the camera.  Skype works very well for Reading Group; I have
been able to participate fully with a copy of any presentation slides open in a
window on my desktop.

In our meeting this week I described how I have spent time meeting with several
managers at Lockheed Martin to get concurrence on my schedule and plans for the
next year.  So far I have met with three direct managers (I have four---matrixed
organisation) and received verbal approval from them.  The last and most
significant manager lives in San Diego, California.  I will be meeting with him
next week while on business travel.

My intent and plan is to continue working the same reduced schedule for Lockheed
as I have been doing, just telecommuting from home instead of from England.  In
order to get approval from the last manager, I am writing up a formal proposal
stating in black and white terms what has been informally agreed.  I expect to
have it done and signed off in a few days.

Between unpacking and other errands needed to re-start the household, I have not
accomplished any actual work this week.  I expect to be back to normal after the
week-end.

Dr Martin helped review the schedule and suggested that I generate a list of
upcoming deadlines and milestones in a table format for easy review.  We will be
tracking milestones closely over the next twelve months.

Dr Martin is on holiday next week and in D.C. the week after; I will report and
coördinate by email in lieu of weekly meeting.

Upcoming Travel: San Diego, California 10--13 August 2009.

To-Do List (abbreviated):

1. Finalise negotiations with employer regarding time;
2. firs paper final draft and submit to security review;
3. Methodology chapter.

-- 
Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
