Weekly activity report no. 20090903.2233 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0100, week 8+11 TT

The air in Colorado is full of smoke from wildfires in Los Angeles, a thousand
miles west of here.  A couple of nights ago there were bits of ash floating in
the air.  I miss Oxford a lot.  I will be watching the St Giles Fair over the
weekend through the webcam at http://webcam.oii.ox.ac.uk/

I am working on my poster for the ACSAC conference in December.  The deadline
for submission is 15 days from now.  Dr Martin gave me encouraging feedback on
the first page; I have also been reading the 'Advice on designing scientific
posters' at http://www.swarthmore.edu/NatSci/cpurrin1/posteradvice.htm and
looking at examples of good and bad posters in a Flickr group.  The writing is
going very slowly but I am making progress.  I had an insight while making one
of the figures that explains something I have puzzled over (about the failed CC
evaluation) for years.  I suddenly understood what Lockheed should have done at
that point, and why, and also why it was not done.  I wrote down extensive notes
about it and filed them away for later when I get to my conclusions.  For now I
have to finish the methodology explication so that I can present that clearly
and persuasively in a poster and then in more detail in a journal article.  As
soon as I get those two things done, which will be no later than two weeks from
now, I will get back to working on experiments.

I read an inspiring paper by Richard P. Gabriel called 'Designed as Designer'
(ACM SIGPLAN Conference on Object Oriented Programming Systems Languages and
Applications, 2008); I want to introduce it to reading group next term.  It's a
strange paper but good, I think.

TO DO:

1. Poster for ACSAC due 18th September.

2. Crosstalk journal article also planned to be done by that time.

3. Security review for public release (at least a complete draft of both is
required)

4. Register and pay for ACSAC 25 in December (Hawaii)


-- 
Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
