Weekly activity report no. 20090910.2233 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0101, week 8+12 TT

I made good progress this week although not in the sequence on my schedule.  I
tried using LinkedIn.com to contact some participants I need to interview, and I
got back positive and encouraging responses from several people.  These are all
people I have not had any luck finding previously, and all four indicated that
they would like to talk to me.

The poster presentation for ACSAC 25 is coming along; I do not have it finished
yet but I WILL get it done by the end of the day tomorrow.  The deadline is a
week away and I still have to get it reviewed/approved for public release.
There is considerable overlap between this poster presentation and the article I
am writing for the journal Crosstalk---the journal article is more expanded and
contains information that won't be in the poster, but I worry about the ethics
of multiple publication.  The thing to do is to finish writing them and show
them side-by-side to my supervisor.  I hope to be able to do that in about a week.

Graduate Supervision Reports came out today and I read Dr Martin's comments.  I
agree that I am heading in the right direction and also that I need to speed up
the rate of progress.  I resolve to track and report milestones more closely in
future and stick to deadlines.  My current milestone is to have to have both the
ACSAC poster (submission) and Crosstalk paper (draft) completed before 18th
September.  I still think this is achievable.  The hard deadline of the ACSAC
conference is a good motivator.  I will also schedule a meeting with Dr Martin
by telephone as soon as I finish these two papers.

I did not meet with Dr Martin this week---my fault, not his---though as shown
above I have had a fairly efficient week even though unexpectedly working on
things out-of-order according to my schedule.  The result was time lost on the
poster presentation but maybe progress toward research.  I will finish the
poster (required two pages) by the end of tomorrow.

Other Activity: I am giving a talk tomorrow to a group of about sixty engineers
at Lockheed on the topic of secure deletion of data from storage devices.  (I
only got asked to do it yesterday.)  I have been getting more and more involved
lately with a weekly seminar series---in Pennsylvania, but people dial in from
all over---that addresses random Information Assurance (IA) topics.  I have
presented at a couple of them, and the organiser has invited me back each time.

I looked up current values for magnetic coercivity (4000 to 8000 Oe according to
a recent Seagate patent) and the field intensity of currently approved
degaussers (around 13,000 Oe).  I have time and cost comparison numbers for
overwriting and shredding versus full disk encryption.  I will describe the
current state of TPM-based encrypted storage and the security certifications
that have been done to date in USA and Japan.  Finally I will go over recent
changes in US government regulations addressing media sanitisation.

Current Milestones:

 - The deadline for ACSAC 25 poster or WiP submissions is 18th September.  The
poster must be reviewed for public release before this date.  Also, to have the
Crosstalk article draft to Dr Martin for review.

 - Week of 14th September: schedule a supervisor meeting with Dr Martin.

 - Register and pay for ACSAC 25 in December.

-- 
Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
