Weekly activity report no. 20090918.0049 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0102, week -3 MT

I finished the poster for ACSAC 25 tonight, after working like a demon on it all
week.  The deadline for submission is today.  I know I didn't get it done early
enough to have several people review it internally before submitting.  I want to
submit the poster today, however, in order to make the deadline for the
conference.  I think it is pretty good, but it's definitely not flashy.  If you
have time to look at it today, I would very much appreciate any feedback.  It's
the first poster I've ever done.  I think I could stand next to this poster and
talk about it at a conference.  (PDF file attached.  It is sized for printing as
two A4 pages or two-up on a single A0 sheet.)

I have submitted a draft of the poster for (security) review for public release
already; the security clearance people understand the difference between draft
and camera-ready copy, and just want to see a draft as early as possible.

I promised last week to have the poster and a draft of the Crosstalk journal
article done by today; the journal article is not ready yet but it should go
together quickly now because the content is basically the same as the poster,
only expanded to 4000 words instead of 800 words.  There are many details I had
to cut from the poster because they wouldn't fit; all the wordsmithing I did and
agonising over phrases can be re-used in the journal article.  I will work on
that article today.

I wanted to have the writing finished before calling Dr Martin for a meeting;
because I ended up writing all week I didn't schedule a meeting earlier in the
week.  Let me finish the journal article draft over the weekend.  As soon as
possible after that I will email to request a meeting.

Other activities this week: I gave a talk to the IA Communities of Practice
(CoP) group at Lockheed Martin on 11th September.  There were 125 engineers on
the multicast (they were in Pennsylvania, I was in Colorado) plus an unknown
number of people on the teleconference and NetMeeting.  I got many questions
from the audience and some thanks by email afterwards.  The organiser asked me
back for another talk in the future.  So far I have given two of these talks and
contributed background material to several others; they take place weekly on a
variety of topics related to Information Assurance.  It's good practice; I can
tell that I'm getting better at public speaking although I still need a lot more
experience at it.

Current Milestones:

 - ACSAC 25 poster or WiP submission deadline TODAY.

 - Crosstalk journal article draft TODAY.

 - Later today or early next week, schedule a meeting with Dr Martin.

-- 
Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
