Weekly activity report no. 20090924.2234 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0103, week -2 MT

I met with Dr Martin by video teleconference on Wednesday.  We discussed the
ACSAC poster submission and progress towards the Crosstalk journal paper.

Something unusual has come up.  From a contact at Lockheed, I received a copy of
a new U.S. Air Force Request for Information (RFI) asking for a system very much
like what I have proposed to build as part of validating my thesis.  This came
in late Tuesday night and I had not had time to read it thoroughly at the time
of my meeting with Dr Martin on Wednesday morning, but it appears to be a close
match.  The only difference between what I proposed at Transfer of Status and
this is that my proposal dealt with the Common Criteria and the Air Force is
asking for DIACAP.  The RFI definitely contains information I can use.  It may
additionally prove to be a source of funding, a case study for validation, and
an impetus towards more rapid progress on my research.

After talking with Dr Martin and verifying that it would not be a conflict of
interest to do so, I told my manager at Lockheed that I would like to explore
it.  Within hours, the situation escalated.  The programme manager assigned a
project manager (a person I have worked with before; I have great respect for
her ability).  The programme manager kicked it upstairs to the Vice President
level.  I got a call from Legal asking me to please check the University's
regulations on intellectual property and research support.  (I am still reading
web pages on those.)  I have definitely been encouraged strongly to pursue it.

What I hope will happen next is that Lockheed will decide to submit a white
paper in response to the RFI.  I would undoubtedly be asked to write it.  The
best part is, that's exactly the same thing as the Crosstalk paper.  So I will
get paid for the time I spend writing it.  It's only a few days of funding, but
still.

The Air Force programme office that issued the RFI would next evaluate the white
paper along with any others that they received.  (I am aware of at least one
other department within Lockheed starting to write a white paper.)  If the Air
Force likes the Lockheed white paper, they may request a formal proposal to
follow.  The proposal is significantly longer, more detailed, and contains
schedule and budget information along with a list of specific deliverables.  I
would help write that together with several other people who specialise in such
things.  Once the proposal is delivered, it is up to the Air Force to decide
whether to allocate funds and issue a contract.  If that should happen, I would
be assigned to work on the project and build the system.  I would be getting
paid to work on my research problem.

This is serendipitous for two reasons; firstly, it represents a reliable source
of funding.  Secondly, a project manager will be monitoring all progress to a
parallel but highly detailed schedule, forcing me to keep to deadlines and all
but guaranteeing rapid progress on my part.

Even if everything else were to fall through (unlikely), I still have the
RFI---a published document---and could use the information therein to validate
the requirements for my proposed methodology and tool support.

Not all of the above things have actually happened yet.  I have a backup plan in
case it doesn't.  When the opportunity first came to light, I thought about
whether I should ignore it and stick to my original plan (Common Criteria) or
take a risk, be `agile', and switch my research to DIACAP.  Theoretically, it
makes no difference.  DIACAP (Department of Defence Information Assurance
Certification and Accreditation Programme) is based on Common Criteria anyway
and there are strong commonalities.  DIACAP is newer, and may in fact be a
better standard.  I decided to exercise agility and pursue it.  As mentioned
above I have backup plans in case this doesn't pan out.

My immediate tasks are:

1. Understand the RFI and what it's asking for;

2. Write the Crosstalk article, then submit it simultaneously as a white paper
in response to the RFI;

3. Finish checking the University regulations governing ownership of graduate
student research, since Lockheed is chary about funding something they might
lose control of later.

As usual, my best laid plans (every week, it seems like) have to be rearranged
in response to external events.  However, this is potentially a good opportunity
and I think it's worth the risk.  I promised to get the draft Crosstalk article
to Dr Martin before our next meeting on Thursday, 1st October 2009 at 2:00 p.m.
Oxford time.  Several other people are waiting impatiently for it now, too.

-- 
Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
