Weekly activity report no. 20091015.1808 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0106, week 1 MT

I wrote a response to the U.S. Air Force request-for-information (RFI) for
a tool to manage DIACAP C&A.  It is being reviewed by Lockheed managers
before I can send it off.  Responses are due tomorrow, 16th October 2009
before 10:16 p.m. US/Eastern Daylight Time.  The reviewers saw it tonight
and I have started getting back some positive responses.  It is a risk,
because the response does not directly answer all the questions in the
RFI but instead questions their basic assumptions and then proposes
something different.  It is an approach that has worked well in the
past---when I tried it last year it yielded a positive response and a
contract for funding.  If it works again, I will have assured funding
for the rest of my research.  If it doesn't, maybe it still makes us
look forward-thinking and innovative.  The number of risks I have been
taking lately is high, but I feel it is a good thing to learn.

Reading group met yesterday; I listened in via Skype through Cornelius's
laptop.  The battery failed after an hour but I heard all but the last few
minutes of the discussion.  Shamal is going to try recording tomorrow's
Software Engineering Friday seminar and I look forward to seeing the
video of Dr Martin's talk.  We have set aside some server space for the
MP4 files that the camera produces.

Besides the Air Force RFI response going out tomorrow, I am waiting
for notification this weekend from the ACSAC conference about my poster
and I am modifying the RFI response into a paper for submission to the
journal Crosstalk.

Plan for this week: I owe the Air Force a summary progress report, due
30th October.  Concurrently I will be working on the Crosstalk paper.
If the funding agency takes the bait, things will get very busy very fast.
I told them I would do it in a year; that is right on my planned schedule
but enforces a certain pace of progress.

I have volunteered to help with a virtual study group at Lockheed for
candidates wanting to sit the CISSP-ISSEP exam.  That will run for 10
weeks and starts next week.

Next meeting: Monday, 19th October at 2:00 p.m. Oxford time.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
