Weekly activity report no. 20091022.2111 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0107, week 2 MT

I met with Dr Martin on Monday by video teleconference.  I described
the U.S. Air Force proposal that I had worked on all week.  It was
mailed on Friday last.  The proposal is for one year's funding to build
a certification and accreditation (C&A) tool specific to AFI 33-210, a
tailored DIACAP.  The call for proposals requested a single-purpose tool,
but after considering it I decided to submit a proposal for a somewhat
more general tool that would be applicable to more organisations than
just the one requesting proposals.  It is a risk to propose a solution
different from what the requesters asked for, but I think that in
this case the risk is worth taking.  If I get funding, it will be for
this year.  As of today, the requester has acknowledged receipt of
all proposals but nothing more.  I know that someone there noticed my
proposal, though, because they commented in their acknowledgement on the
name I gave to the tool: nihil obstat.  (It seemed like a good name for
a C&A tool.)

Right before sending in the proposal, an opportunity arose to get
access to the entire Certification Test & Evaluation (CT&E) data for a
major software update to an existing computer system under NIST Special
Publication 800-53---a good validation test case for a general C&A tool.
I wrote that into the proposal at the last minute.  I have an invitation
and approval from the owners of that system, who are starting CT&E soon,
but I have not got access to the data as of yet.  800-53 is brand new
(August 2009) and even the Certification Authorities are not familiar
with it yet.  The need for a C&A tool is even more acute.

I promised to send a draft of the Crosstalk article to Dr Martin by
tomorrow; I am working on it now.  Trying not to drift, as Dr Martin
cautioned against.

This week I volunteered to introduce the next paper at Reading Group;
I chose a recent article on getting support for risk management by
information security practitioners in industry.  I can validate some of
what the authors claim in the paper with my own experience in the banking
and defence contracting industries, and I want to compare the different
attitudes towards risk avoidance vs risk management in DoD and MoD.

Deadlines and Tasks this week: I owe the Air Force a summary progress
report tomorrow.  I owe Dr Martin a draft of the Crosstalk paper tomorrow.

Next meeting planned for: Wednesday, 28th October after Reading Group.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
