Weekly activity report no. 20091029.2111 (GMT-6) sequence no. 0108, week 3 MT

Denver is buried under blizzard conditions this week, but I met with
Dr Martin by video teleconference yesterday.  Before our meeting, at
Security Reading Group, I introduced the paper by Johnson, et al. on
`Security through Information Risk Management' (2009), which resulted in
some good discussion.  It would be interesting to compare that paper,
which is mostly a collection of opinions from practitioners at the CIO
level in commercial organisations, with the article by Parnas and Curtis
(2009) on `Empirical Research in Software Engineering' and the paper
by Kitchenham, et al. (2002) or the presentation by Greg Wilson about
the `low standards for proof' in empirical computer science research.
I put it on the wiki and sent a query to the reading group mailing list
to see if there is interest.

Dr Martin and I discussed progress last week which was small.  I had to
rewrite a Lockheed report that was sent back for insufficient technical
detail.  The manager was satisfied with the revised report, but writing
it took all my time.  I did not get the Crosstalk article written and
sent to Dr Martin last Friday as I had promised because of it.

Not getting enough sleep.  I am working on the Crosstalk paper again
and will have that written by 4th November.  Next week the US government
certifier will be in town for the kick-off of `alpha' testing of a major
revision of a software system at Lockheed.  I have obtained permission to
be involved in that from the beginning and consequently able to observe
the application of a new C&A process (NIST Special Publication 800-53)
where both the certifier (Defence Intelligence Agency [DIA]) and the
developer (Lockheed) are unfamiliar with the process.  The opportunity
only appeared on 16th October, and I got permission on 26th October,
so I am now planning to use it as another validation example for the
tool I am developing for C&A of existing systems.

Primary concern: maintaining progress

Next meeting planned for: Wednesday, 4th November after Reading Group.
I will have the Crosstalk article written.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
