Weekly activity report no. 20091112.2029 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0110, week 5 MT

I met with Dr Martin at 2:00 p.m. GMT today by video teleconference.
I reported my status as stressed, sleep-deprived, and worrying about
progress.  In other words, situation normal.  Lockheed has been taking up
too much of my time again; I have to guard against that.  I am acutely
aware of the short amount of time remaining that I have to finish this
research.

I attended training on DO-178B/C safety-critical certification for
aircraft software systems.  It is another C&A standard.  I am not
planning to study it in detail, but the training opportunity came up and
I thought it would be useful background material for better understanding
of the field.

This week I had two interesting experiences when people asked me questions
on two different occasions.  The first was a question about the Trusted
Path requirement common to TCSEC, ITSEC, CC, and SP 800-53.  This has
always been a problem for me to understand in the past.  This week,
when someone asked me a question related to it, I had a good answer.
I had never before understood the Trusted Path requirement well, at least
not to be able to explain it very well.  This time it just clicked.
That was the good experience; the bad experience this week was when
another person asked me a question about how the C&A process differs for
SCI systems from collateral (classified Secret and below).  I didn't know
the answer.  I had been concentrating on the non-SCI aspect for so long
that I realised I did not know the SCI side.  It just shows how much more
knowledge remains that I have yet to take in.  Lots more work to go.
Dr Martin said that he was pleased that things are starting to come
together and focus.  He is hopeful of seeing a great burst of progress
from me soon.

Dr Martin asked about the CT&E Alpha Testing that I have been observing.
Had I obtained good data from it?  I should write a report about it.
The Alpha Test out-brief is tomorrow; I promised to write a report this
weekend and send it to Dr Martin on Monday.

Without doing a big re-planning exercise, for next week I should put
target dates on the items on my task list so that we can track those
dates and see where they are going.

Task list: unchanged from last week.  Graduate Student Reporting for
the term is next week.

Problems: Lockheed has been taking too much of my time again.  I will have
to remind them again that they also stand to benefit from this research,
if they will only let me finish it uninterrupted.

Other activities: Reading Group yesterday discussed the famous paper
by Biddle, et al. on Darknets from 2002.  It was interesting to look at
the way that some of the trends named for the first time in that paper
have either continued or changed drastically in the seven years since
the paper was written.

Next meeting: not scheduled yet but I will arrange a meeting after 5:15
p.m. GMT some time next week.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
