Weekly activity report no. 20091126.2207 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0112, week 7 MT

I submitted my Graduate Supervision System (GSS) report.  I found three
new articles relevant to my research and literature search: several
people involved in the EAL 6+ validation of INTEGRITY-178B throwing
barbs in interviews; even after NIAP issued the certificate there
remains disagreement over what it signifies.  Differences in the wording
between the Validated Products List (VPL) and what the CC certificate
are providing fuel for a vitriolic exchange in the trade press.  It is
relevant to my research because interpretation of the requirements of a
new C&A standard in concrete terms is exactly what I want to develop a
tool to control.  Considered in the right way, the sequel\ae of the
first EAL 6+ validation even be a third case study.  I need to think
about this.

Funding took up a lot of my time this week; it was necessary to apply
for one more increment of student loans to cover fees for MT, HT,
and TT.  It is possible that the funding situation at Lockheed may have
changed favourably; another person on the programme has announced that
he is enrolling to work on a PhD at GWU, and he got funding from the
corporation.  I will be looking into that on Monday when people get back.

Status of writing: I am getting back to work today on the Alpha Testing
report; I will finish it over the weekend.  As soon as that is done
I will schedule an appointment with Dr Martin for another meeting.
Next priority has to be the Crosstalk article so it can be sent to
the editor before Christmas.  After that I want to finish writing the
methodology chapter---which has changed all over the map anyway during
the past few months---and update the master schedule before New Years
with everything I need to accomplish between now and the end of Trinity
2010 for confirmation of status.

Next meeting not scheduled yet but will occur during the first week of December.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
