Weekly activity report no. 20091203.2124 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0113, week 8 MT

I have been working this week on a related research project at Lockheed,
specifically on explaining to our sponsor about the theoretical
justification for how we will measure the significance and accuracy
of our results.  I have been spent some time reading on Type 1 and
Type 2 errors and applying a method for computing the probability of
error (accepting or rejecting the null hypothesis incorrectly) based
on fault trees.  In the validation step, having this analysis done is
extremely persuasive that you really have solved the right problem.
I have to give a presentation to the sponsor on Monday and a 15 minute
talk before the programme office on Tuesday.

No progress to report on writing the RM 5.0 Alpha Testing report or
Crosstalk article or methodology chapter this week.  After the sponsor
meetings on Monday and Tuesday next I will be able to get back to work
on research.

Plan: still intending to have all three written before the end of the
year.  Lockheed will quiet down a lot after the Programme Management
Review 7--9 December when nearly everyone else (and the whole government)
go on holiday through the end of the year.  I will lay out a more detailed
plan with dates in my next weekly report.

Reading Group was postponed this week.  I did not meet with Dr Martin
(again) because of having no progress to report.  The Lockheed work I am
doing at the moment is applicable to my research---it is teaching me how
to measure and demonstrate statistical significance, show validation,
and how to communicate very complicated technical information to sponsors.

Community Involvement: I volunteered as a team mentor and technical judge
at the Western Regional Qualifiers for the FIRST Lego robotics league
at the Colorado School of Mines on 22nd November.  Fifty-eight teams of
schoolchildren competed to build and programme autonomous robots out of
Lego to perform a defined set of tasks in a tabletop maze.  The rules
allowed a maximum of three motors, four sensors and one microcontroller.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
