Weekly activity report no. 20091210.1940 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0114, week 8+1 MT

I gave two technical talks to government audiences this week.  The first
talk was to the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL), and described
progress since the last Summary Technical Report, risks and risk
mitigation plans, and our proposed validation method.  I learnt a new
(to me) technique for error rate prediction called Probabilistic Risk
Assessment (PRA) and applied it successfully to the problem of minimising
false acceptance (Type 2 error) and false reject (Type 1 error) as well
as predicting the error rate.  That project has another two years to run,
and I am finally getting some help to work on it in Phase II which is
good because it has been taking up too much of my time and affecting my
school work.

The second talk was to the Navy Programme Office: sponsors, certifiers,
and Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V).  The Radiant Mercury
(RM) Programme Management Review (PMR) was this week, and I was assigned
to brief the Navy Programme Office about the Air Force research project.
That required explaining a research programme to an audience unfamiliar
with it, in contrast to the sponsor who needed detailed information.
Overall, both talks went well.

From some of the meetings I did get information useful for my thesis
research.  I learnt that the Navy sponsor has a history and some
strong opinions that I was unaware of regarding the first case study
in my dissertation.  I added him to the list of people to interview
(that will happen in January some time).  He also has a strong opinion
regarding one of the other people I had planned to interview already,
which suggests some new questions to ask.  In summary, I got data related
to both case studies from all the meetings I sat through this week,
so the time was not entirely unproductive.

The best news is that the sponsors have now all gone home and I can get
back to work on research.  I was called into many more sponsor meetings
this week than I thought would be the case, and they took up all my time.
In the morning I can get back to writing.

Currently in the pipeline:

1. RM 5.0 Alpha Testing (CT&E) observation report: TOMORROW

2. Crosstalk journal paper: NEXT, planned to be submitted before 31st
	December.

3. Methodology chapter: planned to be written before 31st December.

Reading Group met on Wednesday to discuss Gutmann's conference
presentation on security usability.  We missed having John and Shamal and
Dr Martin, but it was a good discussion although we ended up disagreeing
with most of the author's points, except for a few.  I have still not
had a supervisor meeting for three weeks now, because of Lockheed work,
but let me get some writing done and then I will make an appointment
for one as soon as possible before Christmas.

Other reading: I read the 2008 and 2010 Certification and Accreditation
Professional (CAP) examination bulletins, which I am deciding whether
to recommend to Lockheed for satisfying the DOD 8570.1 requirement that
hits in September 2010.  I may decide to take the CAP exam to see how
difficult it is.

Other activities: I participated on 5th December 2009 as a spotter in
the DARPA Network Challenge.  The problem was to locate ten red 2.5 metre
tethered balloons in 3,000,000 square miles in one day.  The balloons were
flown from 10 am Eastern Standard Time to 4 pm local time on Saturday.
I submitted one sighting report (39.695472,-104.988216) with a photograph
to the MIT team.  I did not win any of the $40,000 prize, though.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
