Weekly activity report no. 20100107.1835 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0118, week -1 HT

I met with Dr Martin yesterday to go over progress and planning.
We decided that my immediate task is to finish the methodology chapter,
followed by the Crosstalk journal paper and get that submitted soon.
Anticipating the Confirmation of Status report and viva is my primary
concern at this point.  Two good publications (with results in them)
between now and July would make for a good case at Confirmation of Status.
We decided it would be a good idea if I gave a seminar explaining my
methodology in Oxford as soon as possible.  I bought the plane tickets
tonight.

I will be there 18th through 21st February.  I hope that Dr Martin and Dr
Ashbourn will be able to meet with me Thursday or Friday of that week.
It is a very short trip but just enough time to see all the people I
need to see without taking too much time away from research or getting
distracted.  I have already asked for the Friday software engineering
seminar slot on 19th February.  If it's not already taken, I want to
give a talk that day to explain my methodology chapter.

I am working on a new outline of the methodology chapter now.  I think
I can give an interesting talk on the problems of certification test &
evaluation and site accreditation and how I intend to solve it.  Having a
seminar deadline in front of me will guarantee that it gets done on time.

To-Do: (1) finish outline of methodology chapter; (2) update my schedule
and put it in front of Dr Martin for next week's regular meeting; (3)
finish the Crosstalk paper and get it reviewed by a couple of people,
then send to editor; (4) attack the problem of getting some measurable
results before end of this term.

Next week's meeting is not scheduled yet because I forgot to do it at
the end of yesterday's meeting.  I will email to schedule the next one
(to look at my schedule) right now.

Status: back on track and working hard.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
