Weekly activity report no. 20100114.2300 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0119, noughth week HT

I met with Dr Martin yesterday to discuss my thesis statement and
methodology.  It was a good meeting that accomplished a lot.  I will
describe in this report what we talked about.

Background: last week GSS reports came out, and this term's report had the
`with concerns' box ticked---as it should have.  Lockheed took up way
too much of my time in Michaelmas term, and this affected my progress.
The result was that I got stuck throughout the holidays and didn't make
any progress.  I'm concerned too about my lack of progress last term,
so I was relieved to see it when Dr Martin ticked that box, even though
it probably raises a flag to the Director of Graduate Studies (DGS).

I started off by asking about the GSS report, and whether
Prof. Kwiatkowska [note: DGS] had read it, and whether I should plan
on having a talk with her when I am back in Oxford in a few weeks.
Dr Martin said she probably has not read it yet, but I should definitely
have two things with me if and when I meet with her: some real progress
to show off and a definite roadmap.  I appreciate that; I will follow
Dr Martin's advice and have them both ready.  It shouldn't be a problem
now that I have got back on track and moving forward again.

Next we looked at my methodology outline, which I attached to the meeting
agenda I sent out beforehand.  I showed my current thesis statement and
asked for some help.  Dr Martin did an interesting thing then: he asked me
to state, in five or six sentences, what problem I was trying to solve.
Just state it.  I gaped for a bit on the video teleconference, then just
said it.  Five or six carefully phrased sentences just came out:

    It is widely acknowledged that information security Certification
    Test and Evaluation (CT&E) is expensive in terms of time, number of
    people required, and duplicated effort.  That high cost makes CT&E a
    special event that is not done often, either because fewer systems
    requiring CT&E are made, or because not all of them are tested, or
    because the ones that are made are tested less often.  Defence in
    depth is a well-established principle of infosec engineering,
    but people confuse the duplication of effort in CT&E with defence
    in depth.  The massive overexpediture of time and effort does not
    yield an attendant increase in security.

That's a pretty good thesis statement, said Dr Martin.  (I was surprised
and very pleased to hear him say that, because I've been struggling with
getting to a good thesis statement all this time.)  I protested that
it lacks a theoretical component, and we talked about that for a while.
Dr Martin gave me some good concrete suggestions of places I can look to
maybe find a theory that can be adapted to fit.  He suggested that I look
for criticisms of the Common Criteria, at the safety critical literature,
and at ISO 9000.  I have more detailed notes of this conversation in
my lab notebook and I am starting to track all those down.  Dr Martin
further advised that I go look at old DPhil dissertations in the Comlab
for their thesis statements.  Many aren't any more concise than mine is.
I have a thesis!

Next we looked over the outline of my methodology in detail.  Dr Martin
asked me to change it around a bit to make explicit the objective of
the steps in the methodology.  Tell the reader up front why I am doing
these particular high level steps in my methodology.  Look at how it
recursively decomposes and present the information in a logical sequence
without burying the important information at the end.  It's interesting
what you are doing here---show the reader how interesting it is.

I am remembering again why I was so excited in the first place, about
what a cool technical problem this really is.  I want to know what the
answer is.  I can communicate that sense to the reader in the way I
write the methodology chapter.

Once the methodology chapter is written, which I need first because I
already volunteered to give a talk in Oxford on 19th February about it,
that will also be most of the Crosstalk journal article written right
there.  The remainder of the journal article is already written in the
guise of the poster I wrote last term.  Once the methodology chapter
is written, which will be in another week or two, I can complete the
journal article quickly thereafter.

For the rest of this week I am searching around for a theory (or at
least an axiom or two) that I can adapt to my thesis.  I am continually
expanding the level of detail in my methodology outline and getting ready
to sit down and write it.  My deadline for writing the methodology chapter
is the middle of February when I will be in Oxford and I volunteered to
give a talk on it to the software engineering department.  (I will have
to leave some time to make slides and write a presentation before then
as well.)  I am on a roll so I am not going to spend any time updating
the schedule until I have the chapter written.

Next meeting: Monday 18th January 2010 at 1400 Oxford time.

Status: feeling pretty good and making progress.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford

weekly activity report 119 (loughry)---addendum
Joe Loughry
Sent: 15 January 2010 08:46
To: Niki.Trigoni@comlab.ox.ac.uk; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn
Cc: andrea@hpwtdogmom.org; Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net
Attachments:

I should explain (it's very late and I wasn't being clear) why I am
looking for a controlling theory.  It is not just because I think my
thesis needs a theoretical aspect.

I think there is a controlling theory, a thread that runs through the
whole gamut of certification test and evaluation, something that I
haven't found yet.

That's what I meant I'm looking for.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
