Weekly activity report no. 20100204.1527 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0122, week 3 HT

I met with Dr Martin on Monday by video teleconference.  I have begun
shifting work towards the software engineering talk I am giving on the
19th because the deadline is approaching.  Starting to work on slides
in Beamer.  I sent the title and abstract to the meeting organiser as
requested two weeks before the date.  Here is the abstract:

> Why does information security Certification Test and Evaluation
> (CT&E) presently cost so much?  What are the attributes of a good
> security CT&E programme?  Conversely, what are the signs of a poor
> one?  This talk will explore the landscape of certification and accreditation
> with the aim of developing a methodology leading to a fix.

I think it's concise and interesting.  By leaving the meaning of
'landscape' unspecified, I can include both safety-critical and
security-critical Certification and Accreditation (C&A) in order to
compare and contrast, although I will focus on the more constrained
arena of classified systems where my interest lies.  I have concrete
examples of good and poor certification efforts to illustrate points.
In this talk, I will go through my methodology in some detail.  The idea
is to demonstrate at each step that the part contributes to a whole
that is both necessary and sufficient to support my thesis.  This talk
is a follow-on to a previous talk last year in which I described the
background to one of my case studies as motivation for the research.

I asked about dry-running the talk next week at reading group; Dr Martin
said OK but not to let that distract me from progress. If getting ready
for a dry run next week puts too much pressure on, then don't do that.
Instead, concentrate on maintaining forward progress.  At this time I
think I won't, to avoid the distraction.

I talked a little bit about a paper I wrote back in November but never
showed to Dr Martin at the time.  It was a proposal for funding to the
Air Force that didn't get a response.  I was thinking about pulling out
that draft and revising it for a conference in the spring.  I think it
could be a quick publication.  It is different from the Crosstalk journal
article; it would serve the purpose of announcing to other researchers in
other institutions that I am working on this particular problem.  I can't
work on it right now because I have other more pressing deadlines first,
but I would like to do this one soon after.  It is a natural segue into
the prototyping phase of the research.

Looking at the schedule, Dr Martin asked me about confirmation of status,
and whether the phrase `by the end of the term' means before the end of
week 8 of Hilary, or before the beginning of week 1 of Trinity.  I need
to get this clarified and find out when the confirmation of status report
is due.  I will talk to Julie Sheppard when I am in Oxford in a couple
of weeks.  I also found out that student visa rules have changed, so I
need to go to the International Office whilst I am in Oxford.

We went over my list of prioritised tasks.  I have a tonne of work to
do and I know what I need to do first.

Reading Group met early this week to go through Jun's new paper on banking
systems used in South Korea.  I thought it was a good paper and should
be published.  We gave Jun many suggestions and comments.

Next meeting scheduled for Wednesday, 10th February 2010 after reading
group.

Current list of tasks in order of priority, highest priority first:

1. Methodology chapter 2. Software engineering slides (19th Feb) 3. Visit
international office to renew student visa; meet with Julie Sheppard
4. Review dissertations in the comlab library 5. CT&E practitioner survey
(prototype a set of questions; run them by Dr Jirotka for an opinion)
6. nihil obstat conference paper 7. Crosstalk journal article 8. Update
schedule 9. Apply for confirmation of status this term 10. Conformation
of status report with sample chapters

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
