Weekly activity report no. 20100225.1547 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0125, week 6 HT

I am working on the abstract of a new paper with the working title
`Unsteady ground: certification to unstable criteria' for the VALID 2010
conference in Nice, France in August.  The deadline for submissions
is 20th March.  Last week when Dr Martin and I examined the list of
suggested topics in the call for papers, it was not clear whether my
topic fits in the conference.  Dr Martin suggested I send an abstract
to the conference chair to ask beforehand.  I should have the abstract
finished tonight or by tomorrow morning.  It incorporates some ideas
suggested by the audience during the seminar talk I gave in Oxford.

No supervisor meeting this week because of travel.  I will set up a
meeting with Dr Martin to look over the outline of the VALID 2010 paper
(or possibly the first draft by then) mid-next week.  Reading Group was
also postponed yesterday because other people were unavailable.

On Monday I attempted to see Julie Sheppard about retroactively suspending
last Michaelmas term, but she wasn't in the office.  I needed to leave
for the airport so I wrote a detailed email letter, stating right up
front what I wanted to do, followed by more paragraphs of reasons,
justification for the variance, and an offer to provide documentation
if desired.  For DGS to make a decision to approve the plan, I can show
her my weekly progress reports, GSS reports, and also weekly status
reports from Lockheed showing the problem in Michaelmas term from
their perspective.  I phrased the request, as advised, in terms of risk
reduction.  I might not need the extra time this summer, but if I did,
I would have it available.  I pointed out that it ought not to change my
expected completion date, just removes the immediate danger of missing
the deadline for Confirmation of Status.  I am not slowing down progress.
I just want to have enough results to show during the confirmation viva.
Nothing heard in response yet.  I reviewed the Comlab research student's
handbook and the MPLS graduate handbook.  I have the GSO.17 form if DGS
indicates a willingness to do it.

Tasking priority now shifts to the VALID 2010 paper submission first,
followed by completion of writing my methodology chapter before 31st
March, followed by submission of the Crosstalk journal paper immediately
afterwards.  My intent is to have two papers accepted for publication,
the methodology chapter finished, the Introduction chapter re-written, and
the rest of the dissertation outline finalised in time for the original
Confirmation of Status deadline in Trinity term, should that be necessary.
Since I do not have an answer yet on retroactively suspending progress
for last Michaelmas term, I need to plan (for the time being) as if I
won't get it.  Even if I do get a relaxation of the absolute deadline,
I am going to try to stick to that schedule.

GSS reports are due in one week.  The procedure for renewing my student
visa needs to wait until June, except for ATAS certification which I
can apply for now.

Current list of tasks in order of priority, highest priority first:

0. Waiting to hear from DGS on retroactive suspension.  1. Write abstract
and send to VALID 2010 editor.  2. Methodology chapter and VALID 2010
paper first draft.  3. Crosstalk journal paper (based on last week's
seminar).  4. Dissertation outline.  5. Start writing progress report for
Confirmation of Status.  6. CT&E practitioner survey (write questions as
in methodology) 7. Update schedule for Dr Martin 8. Apply for confirmation
of status during Trinity Term if necessary (application is due in week 8)

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
