Weekly activity report no. 20100304.1832 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0126, week 7 HT

I sent the GSO.17 form for retroactive suspension of status in Michaelmas
term 2009 to Julie Sheppard.  DGS indicated that she would approve it.
Julie offered to send the form over to St Cross College for signature,
and I thank her for that.  Fedex reports that it got to the comlab.

Reading group yesterday discussed part of a defence contractor
report on Chinese military development of Computer Network
Operations/Exploitation/Attack (CNO, CNE and CNA, respectively)
capability.  Their method of using CNE together with data exfiltration
staged across multiple servers is disciplined and corroborated by multiple
sources.  My interpretation of the report is that it's interesting
that the US government (1) is gathering enough detailed log files to
permit effective forensic investigation, (2) has some very skilled people
reading those log files, but (3) their computer networks are inadequately
protected against intrusion, collection and data exfiltration.  Accessible
machines are vulnerable to malware and the interior of the network is
'soft'.  The apparent level of detail available in audit log records
and the amount of forensic analysis going on is interesting, though.

I submitted the GSS report for Hilary term today.  I reported that I
am once again making progress, after being stuck a few months ago.
I want to achieve confirmation of status before the end of summer.
If I can get the VALID 2010 conference paper and Crosstalk journal
paper accepted by then, together with a finished methodology chapter,
introduction and literature survey chapters, plus the preliminary results
from participants in my first two case studies, then I think I will be in
good shape for talking to assessors in the confirmation of status viva.
Things are coming together finally.

I almost have my paper ready for VALID 2010.  The deadline for that
is in approximately two weeks.  The second call for papers came out
today and clarified some of the topic descriptions from the first CFP.
I think my paper fits in the Software Testing and Validation track.  I did
not formally meet with my supervisor yesterday (beyond a few minutes of
informal conversation) because I want to finish writing the paper first
in order to have concrete writing to look at, not just the outline.

Current list of tasks in order of priority, highest priority first:

1. VALID 2010 paper (based on preliminary results from first case
study) due 20th March 2. Methodology chapter finished by 31st March.
3. Crosstalk journal paper (based on methodology chapter and last week's
seminar in Oxford) submitted by 15th April.  4. Dissertation outline
(needed for confirmation of status).  5. Begin writing progress report for
confirmation of status.  6. CT&E practitioner survey (need to have data
and preliminary interpretation by end of summer) 7. Update the schedule.
8. Apply for confirmation of status.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
