Weekly activity report no. 20100408.2013 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0131, week -2 TT

I did not meet with Dr Martin this week because of Easter.  Next meeting
is scheduled for Wednesday, 14th April at 2pm Oxford time.

I gave a talk this morning to engineers at Lockheed on the subject of
certification and accreditation of cross-domain systems.  The talk was
multicast to other LM sites; 148 people connected to the multicast in
addition to the audience.  The multicast was recorded so I can watch
my performance later and use it to improve public speaking skills.
I had 21 slides and talked for 50 minutes exactly, followed by questions
that lasted another twenty minutes.  Part 2 of this talk will happen
in about a week, followed by another talk in a couple of weeks in
which I can describe my research methodology and preliminary results.
I seem to have volunteered also to lecture on emissions security (RF,
optical, and acoustic) on 5th May to a different audience of engineers
at Lockheed.  I have got feedback this morning from the organiser of the
multicast series about how I did and what can be improved in speaking
(along with an invitation to do more talks!).

On another topic, I got an email from Baasit Saijid of the PEOC4I
office in SPAWARSYSCEN-PACIFIC (US Navy) wanting to work with me on
a reimplementation using formal methods of high-assurance portions
of Radiant Mercury.  It is still early days but this might be my next
project.  It ties in with my research as a follow-on, and could lead to
work for the next five years.

Progress this week:

I have been digging email addresses out of historical project records
for the practitioner survey.  It is up to three surveys now: first,
participants in the failed Common Criteria evaluation; second, a survey
of practitioners---being the government certifiers and accreditors
themselves; and thirdly I decided to add another survey of people who need
certification and accreditation services---and hence are forced to work
with government accreditors to obtain the required Approval to Operate
(ATO).  One of the reasons I agreed to do this lecture today was because
the audience (engineers who have been told by their Programme Office
that they need to design-in an approved Cross Domain Transfer solution)
might be willing to fill out my survey.  I will give the survey to
the audience when I do Part 2 of the C&A talk on 20th April.  I have
registered for an account with a web-based survey software provider;
now I am working on writing the survey questions.

Distractions this week:

I had to finish my US federal and Colorado state taxes.  That took
up two days.  I also had to write a quarterly progress report for
the Probabilistic Redaction project for the Air Force sponsor, and
select hardware for a server to run the development environment and
proof-of-concept prototype on.  I modelled the size of the working set
in virtual memory that will result from inverting the entire Web 1T
5-gram corpus (plus decorations at the leaves) and it almost exactly
fits in an even 32 GB of physical memory.  That seems like a good omen.
We are supposed to demonstrate a working prototype this summer (text only)
processing an archive of newspaper articles.  Right now the software is
just a bunch of Perl scripts but we are working on getting a MapReduce
implementation working using Hadoop.

Upcoming deadlines:

The notification date for VALID 2010 has been delayed to 30th April.
I am trying to get information from the UCDMO Conference organisers
(Unified Cross Domain Management Office) in Ft Meade about when they
need paper submissions for their conference in July.

Current list of tasks in order of priority, highest priority first:

1. Email addresses for practitioner survey, participant survey, and
user survey; enter in SurveyMonkey and test.  2. Methodology chapter.
3. Finish preparing Part 2 of C&A talk.  4. Survey questions, list of
participants extracted from methodology chapter: to be ready now for
20th April.  5. Journal article (based on methodology chapter, VALID 2010
paper and recent talks) now to be submitted before 30th April.  6. Write
and submit UCDMO paper for July conference.  7. Update dissertation
Table of Contents.  8. Begin writing progress report for confirmation
of status.  9. Fill out paperwork for UK student visa extension in
April for June deadline.  10. Update the schedule.  11. Apply for
confirmation of status---I want to submit the forms with written work in
June for August or September.  12. Development of accreditor information
coordination tool.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
