Weekly activity report no. 20100422.2149 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0133, noughth week TT

I met with Dr Martin on Wednesday 21st April to look over my progress.
I reported on the status of my experimental animal: Radiant Mercury
5.0 certification testing.  Beta 1 continues to proceed normally; IV&V
will wrap up this week on Friday and submit their final report on 30th
April; no change there.  Rumour has it that there are no major findings,
which is good news.  The developer is only working on 6--8 CRs (software
Change Requests) at the present time, none of them large; things look
good for version 5.0zc to become the build candidate that goes into Beta
2 regression testing---due to complete 18th June (factory acceptance test)
and 8th July (government regression test).

As I predicted, the developer finally decided to slip the date for Beta 2
by six weeks and test at STRATCOM instead of JFCOM.  The project manager
noted in yesterday's meeting that the artificial sense of urgency that
prevailed whilst the developer were still trying to make the JFCOM
deadline is probably the only reason why they'll actually receive the
IV&V report by 30th April; without that pressure, the IV&V contractors
probably wouldn't have worked as hard.  The slippage of 6--8 weeks off
the original date is actually not bad, although funding is very tight
and the developer is 'at risk' through 30th April.  They will get it
worked out with NMSO, not to worry.  But funding is very tight and
the project manager specifically asked all personnel to look out for
any unnecessary effort in the plan that can and should be eliminated.
There could be nuclear missiles incoming to Washington, D.C., she said,
and NMSO would never move any faster.  The government sponsor (through
NMSO) have been incrementally funding this project to death.

In other words, the certification is proceeding normally.  It is extremely
interesting to watch the process unfold, observing how it really works
as opposed to how it is supposed to work.  All the meetings and all the
artefacts I collect are useful data for my dissertation.

Next I reported on the UCDMO conference paper abstract I submitted last
Friday.  I almost missed the deadline, having found out about it only
two days before submissions were due, but I did not miss the deadline.
I am excited about this new paper on information asymmetry.  The topic
did not really gel until I began writing it, but this is exactly the
formalism I was searching for and is the key to making the accreditor
information tool in phase II work.  I am working on the full paper
and will have more to say about it soon.  I now have two solid ideas
that are completely different but both relating to the same thesis.
Feeling good about progress right now.

I described a failed experiment that I was trying to do in R, relating
to the information asymmetry idea.  I tried to model the aggregate
risks for each data owner's accreditor by a normal distribution with
a random mean and standard deviation, shifting them left or right a
random amount so they didn't line up, then trying to get the residual
risk by a moving average of all the curves.  It totally did not work.
It seemed like a great idea but it didn't work.  I can express the
concept clearly in set theory but I am still having trouble coming up
with a way of visualising it.  I will have more to say about this later.

Survey progress was delayed because of emergency work on the UCDMO
conference paper.  Working on the questions for tomorrow.

I gave another talk at Lockheed on Tuesday to an audience of about sixty
engineers on new technical capabilities in Radiant Mercury 5.0 and the
UCDMO process.  Following Dr Martin's advice, I made sure the talk was
on a different subject from before and also that it related directly to
a section or chapter in my dissertation.  The subject of this talk will
become two sections in Chapter two or three.  I received good feedback,
participants in one east coast multicast site suggesting at least one
completely new use for the system that has never been considered before.
If it works, it could lead to enormous cost savings throughout the
government.  I passed on the idea to the programme manager.

Miscellaneous: Lockheed introduced a new automated process for reviewing
papers and presentations for public release.  It should speed up the
required security reviews that I am subject to.  Dr Martin suggested an
interesting new thing that Probabilistic Redaction could be used for.
I am going to use that idea in next week's meeting with the project
sponsor.  I helped Shamal proofread a new paper for NSPW 2010 this
week.  I provided John Lyle with a list of historical references about
certification and accreditation.

Next meeting scheduled for Thursday, 6th May 2010 at 1400 Oxford time.
Dr Martin is at the Info Security Europe conference next week.

Current list of tasks in priority order, most urgent priority first:

1. List of email addresses for practitioner survey, participant survey,
and user survey; develop questions, enter in SurveyMonkey and test.
Goal is 23rd April.  2. Extend the outline of the methodology chapter.
3. Journal article (based on methodology chapter, VALID 2010 paper and
recent talks).  I want to submit by 30th April.  4. Write the rest of
the UCDMO conference paper.  5. Update dissertation Table of Contents.
6. For Chapter 3 or 4, interpretation of first case study results.
7. Begin writing progress report for confirmation of status.  8. Fill
out paperwork for UK student visa extension in April for June deadline.
9. Update the schedule.  10. Apply for confirmation of status---I want
to submit the forms with written work in June for August or September.
11. Development of accreditor information coordination tool.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford
