Weekly activity report no. 20100520.1912 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0137, week 4 TT

I presented my VALID 2010 paper to the Security Reading Group on
Wednesday.  John and Cornelius were there.  I wrote this short paper for
the purpose of introducing an audience to the background of CDS since
there aren't any---or hardly any besides the UCDMO conference---gatherings
in my sub-field (there is not a lot of literature either on the subject
of security certification and accreditation, besides the standards
documents).  One problem I keep encountering is that I always have
to spend a lot of time explaining background to a new audience,
and I am really constrained by the short page limit on this paper.
Reading Group on Wednesday more quickly got into the important parts,
because the participants had all heard my previous seminars in Oxford
and knew the background.

I told them I am working on a related idea that characterises the residual
risk accepted by accreditor $A$ which might be different from the residual
risk acceptable to accreditor $B$ because whilst both probably agree on
the set of threats it is desirable to mitigate, they might have different
security clearances, hence know about different sets of risk mitigations
which are at least partly disjoint.  That is going to be the ACM paper I
will finish writing as soon as I get the camera-ready copy for VALID 2010
submitted.  It is due to the conference editors by end of day tomorrow.

Tip for giving presentations: don't talk about `accreditors' before
explaining what an `accreditor' is.  The audience probably hasn't read
your paper yet.  The purpose of a conference talk is to make people
want to read your paper.  A conference talk, especially at a conference
like this where the audience probably is not familiar with your problem
domain at all, should be aimed at a level explaining all specialised
terminology the first time it is used.  This will not be an audience of
specialists in C&A of classified systems; they will be specialists in
testing and validation.

John and Cornelius were a great help.  Their thoughts on the paper led
to a better understanding of what the reviewer comments actually were
trying to say.  Cornelius said that in Section II, I really have two
problems, not one.  The paper first talks about ST&E, but then gives
two examples of CT&E, and then it is back to talking about ST&E again.
That section was unnecessarily confusing.  John asked about how I expect
it to scale; I talked about reducing the number of rounds of ST&E after
a system is CT&E'd from 1000 rounds of (nearly identical) testing down
to around 10.  Those numbers come from an estimate of total life cycle
installations of a typical CDS, including re-certifications and periodic
re-accreditation of sites due to environmental changes.  I want to have
a more persuasive model and estimates of those numbers available by the
time of the conference in August, since I expect questions about it.

John asked whether the tool is intended to collate evidence from
previous accreditations?  Answer: yes.  The idea is never to have to
run the same test, on the same equipment, with the same connections,
by the same people, using the same test procedures more than once.
The accreditors might be different.

Cornelius asked if my problem is still too big.  I agree with that
concern.  The VALID 2010 paper, placed next to the draft of my ACM paper
which is really more about a theoretical foundation for the new tool,
shows up the difference starkly: you can see the evolution of my thesis
from a first case study of one unsuccessful Common Criteria evaluation,
through a second case study showing that success is possible, which then
suggested an idea explaining how flow of information in the right way
leads to success (and the wrong way, to failure) which pointed to the
need for a tool, which needed a theoretical foundation to inform its
design, which led finally to understanding that there is a neat little
mathematical problem at the core of it.  Cornelius is right, I may have
two different research projects here and it might be time to choose one.
I have a limited amount of time to finish.  When I go to Confirmation of
Status soon, the assessors might look at my preliminary results and tell
me to break it up, because they want me to finish in less than a year from
that time.  I really have two different problems here, and to Cornelius
they look nicely separable.  I may not want to separate them though, in
the interest of making a more significant contribution.  Markus Kuhn's
dissertation contains two contributions: a new set of TEMPEST limits on
RF emanations derived from first principles, and a narrow look at CRT
phosphor impulse--decay behaviour in the optical spectrum.  What I have
here is enough work for the next three calendar years, but only about
one year of time.  I intend to finish a well-defined contribution, then
continue the research post-doctoral, until it's done.  There is plenty
of room for future work here, probably five years worth.

John and Cornelius advocated that I should choose one or the other: CT&E
or ST&E, and focus on that for the DPhil.  I started out in this saga
focussed on CT&E, but lately the details of my research (and papers)
have shifted to ST&E.  Certainly ST&E is performed more often, and
probably represents a larger proportion of the total spending on CDS
in field installations, despite the fact that CT&E is more visible and
gets more attention.  I need to talk with Dr Martin about this; I have
asked for a meeting when he gets back.

John made a suggestion in Reading Group that got me unstuck on the
introduction to the paper.  He suggests briefly highlighting the
similarities between the two examples before talking about the more
extensive differences.  As it stands, it looks to the reader like two
completely different systems, when in fact they are the same software.
This illuminates something that one of the reviewers said in comments
from the conference committee.  I know how to fix it now.  Also, how is
CT&E similar to ST&E?

There is still a problem with the submission system at the ACM conference
(SafeConfig).  I emailed the editor but have not received a response yet.

The Prime Minister cancelled the UK ID card project, which changes
the student visa process.  I got a notification from the International
Students Office about a meeting I have to attend.

I gave a talk at Lockheed yesterday to a small audience on the subject of
emission security: conducted emanations, RF, optical, acoustic, thermal,
induced, and exotic attacks.  The talk was well-received and I was asked
to repeat it for the multicast on 15th June.

I put a paper on the wiki for next week: 'Experimental Security Analysis
of a Modern Automobile' by Koscher, et al. (Oakland, California: IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy, 16--19 May 2010).  On an internal
Lockheed Martin mailing list, I posted a short article called `Automobiles
are Cross Domain Systems' in which I made the case that they are that,
and manufacturers do not recognise it yet, but the same techniques
that are used to interconnect classified networks are applicable to the
multiple LANs running in the chassis of your car.  The key point of the
research by Koscher, et al. is that the particular car they tested was
not air-gapped.  One component (the telematics ECU) connected to both the
low-speed untrusted network and the high-speed safety-critical network
and was found not to implement the required authentication as specified
in the CANbus standard.  So any device on the untrusted network (such
as an aftermarket stereo) could re-flash the telematics ECU, add new
code to act as a network bridge, and compromise the trusted network.
The researchers gained full control of throttle, brakes, door locks,
lights, windscreen washer and wipers, and instrument panel displays.

The RM 5.0 CT&E telecon this morning (my second case study) provided
a little more insight into what the disagreement between the two
camps is all about.  The purpose of the meeting was to go over the
developer's final response to the certifier's reply to the developer's
response to the certifier's findings, but what really came out was a
philosophical difference over the meaning and scope of CT&E in relation
to ST&E.  There are voting members of the CDTAB (Cross Domain Technical
Architecture Board) on both sides of the issue.  The certifier wants to
remove certain functionality from the CDMO baseline configuration because
the certifier feels that it has null functionality.  The developer and
the Programme Office argue that function is inherent in the framework,
that the framework is there for each accreditor to specify how it is
to be used at a particular site, and that the choice of what to hang on
the framework is the accreditor's.  The certifier is afraid that if the
CDMO baseline contains an adaptable framework, some sites will configure
it in a stupid way, and the result will be insecure.  The developer and
the Programme Office counter that because the accreditor formally accepts
responsibility for the residual risk and correct operation of a system at
a site, no accreditor would allow the framework to be configured that way.
I apologise for the vagueness of this description but I cannot go into
details and it is the disagreement between developer and certifier that
is significant to my thesis.  Another thing that came up was the fact
that the IC (Intelligence Community) certifiers are ready to proceed
but that SABI (Secret and Below Interoperability) certifiers are not.
`That completely defeats the purpose of the UCDMO' commented one
participant.  This is going to be an entire chapter, I can tell.

Current list of tasks in priority order, most urgent priority first:

Immediately:

1. Camera-ready copy for VALID 2010 is due tomorrow.  2. Register
abstract for ACM workshop (web site problems are still blocking this;
editors contacted).  3. Outline for Crosstalk paper.  4. Go through
slide packages from RMUG for names, dates, addresses, and data relevant
to thesis.  5. Write ACM SafeConfig paper about asymmetry of knowledge
amongst accreditors.  6. Finish list of email addresses for practitioner
survey, participant survey, and user survey; develop questions, enter in
SurveyMonkey and test.  This is very late; goal is now 25th May.  7. Talk
with Dr Martin about circumscribing the exact contribution I want to
claim at Confirmation.  8. Extend the outline of the methodology chapter.

As soon as possible:

9. Update dissertation Table of Contents.  10. For Chapter 3 or 4, start
writing interpretation of first case study results and second case study
preliminary results.  (This will be needed for confirmation of status.)
11. Start a new Appendix containing de-anonymisation codes for all
participants.  This will be a separable appendix.  12. Begin writing
progress report for confirmation of status.  13. UK student visa rules
have changed; check with International Office.  14. Update the schedule.
15. Design of accreditor information coordination tool based on feedback
from first three papers.  16. Apply for confirmation of status---I want to
submit the forms with written work by end of June for August or September.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory,
St Cross College, Oxford
