Weekly activity report no. 20100729.1454 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0147, week 8+6 TT

I feel that I know precisely what I need to accomplish between now and
confirmation of status.  I have a fairly good idea of what the finished
thesis will look like.  I have started writing a confirmation report in
parallel with working out the problems of the accreditor model.  I have
been thinking about accreditor interactions in my head, not in Matlab yet.
I need to get it reduced to equations soon.  I have been reading articles
on game theory, looking for something like a closed-form solution I
can use.  So far, I think it is analogous to---although definitely not
the same as---a Cournot game.  At least there are strong parallels in the
analogy to accreditors' desire to minimise residual risk and the ways
in which they may offer to cooperate.  I am going on the assumption,
after a disagreement with Shamal over the idea, that cooperation in the
accreditor model is dual to competition in the Cournot game, and that
an equal and opposite force can drive an equilibrium just as strongly.
I really need to study more microeconomics.

I found a reference in a recent article by Thompson to a 1982 report by
Jacques S. Gansler about the defence industry.  I have a copy on order
from a used book dealer.  The report deals with the unusual relationship
between government and defence contractors and characteristics that lead
to high cost of things like cross domain systems.  A modern example is
the F-22 Raptor: there is only one customer, the US Air Force, because
the US government prohibits sale of the fighter to other countries.
Some CDSs are in a similar position.  If I intend to make the claim
that the cost of CT&E and ST&E of CDSs is too high at present, and that
I have a solution that preserves the security property, I must somehow
make it square with Gansler's earlier analysis of a something related.
There is an extensive literature on weapons system procurement (unlike
anything to do with CDS) that I can draw from.  Fortunately, I have
already read a lot of those books (Stevenson, 2001; Whittle, 2010;
Burton1993; Westrum, 1999; Lundstrom, 1987; Brown, 1999; Redmond,
2000; Dyson, 2003; Boslaugh, 1999; Reed, 2004; Clark, 1972; Dequasie,
1991; McKinney, 2004).  I have been reading Harland and Lorenz (2005)
on the faster-better-cheaper experiment that NASA tried, beginning in
the early 1990s.  The necessity for high fidelity testing and design
for reliability are both familiar concepts that are as applicable to
CDSs as they are to spacecraft.  (I wonder if there are anything like
accreditors for spacecraft?  Must check.)

There was no Security Reading Group meeting this week, as Cornelius
has a new paper that he is sending around for comments.  I did not meet
with Dr Martin this week because he is on holiday.  I spent a day and
a half reorganising my files, pulling together a bunch of old notes
that I had written in different places into a single, searchable file,
sorted chronologically.  Now that the second case study data are sorted,
I need to do the same thing with the first case study data.  I also need
to get more accreditor surveys out to people.

I need to write my presentation and talk for the conference in Nice.
Some of it is familiar material I have presented before, but I want
to talk about the accreditor model and the design of the tool also.
Part of the reason for this is a dry-run for confirmation in October.
I am planning a trip to Oxford around the middle of October, on my way
back from talking to accreditors in Washington, D.C.  I hope to schedule
a confirmation of status viva at that time.  For reasons of security
classification, export control, ITAR, and proprietary information, I am
leaning more and more in the direction of developing the theoretical
model of accreditor behaviour (backed up by interpretation of the two
case studies) specifically because it is abstract.  Let me explain.
If it is abstract it goes under the radar of managers at work.  I can work
on it without being pressured to develop it into a proprietary product.
By developing a useful tool whilst disguised as a mathematical problem,
I can finish this in time without their interference.  But I am still
talking with accreditors on a daily basis about their job.

The RM 5.0 certification test and evaluation process is moving towards
a successful conclusion.  The developer has received drafts of the final
NSA penetration testing report and government regression testing report
from Beta 1 CT&E.  There are no surprises.  The developer has fixed
all of the issues that they chose to fix, and documented the others.
There was a 5.01 patch preliminary build meeting this week to approve
files that will go into the POA&M patch; no date has been decided yet for
when the patch will be issued, except that it will be after 20th August.
The developer continues to express the feeling that one person at NSA
has a bias against RM and will always find something wrong with it.
It is my perception, however, that that person is only one vote amongst
the group that decides the outcome of the CT&E, and either lacks the
power to stop it, or has been sufficiently appeased, or is being ignored.
Deeper analysis of that awaits more data.

Present on the call today were Dennis Bowden, RM programme office; Larry
Sampson, Unified Cross Domain Management Office (UCDMO); Larry Brown,
Kevin Miller and Ian McGlothlin, Lockheed Martin; Dan Nichols,Unified
Cross Domain Management Office (UCDMO); Charissa Robinson, NSA I173;
Kevin Gallicchio, NSA I733; Dave Oshman, NSA I173; Dan Griffin, US
Navy SPAWARSYSCEN-Pacific; Maureen Branch; Corinne Castanza, DNI CAT;
and myself.

Charissa from NSA I173 will send out the final CT&E regression test report
from SSC Charleston by close of business tomorrow.  Dan Griffin just got
back from STRATCOM and reports that all is going well; they will be ready
for UCDMO to arrive and for ST&E to begin next week.  Larry Sampson then
asked if there were any additional comments on the report.

Kevin Gallicchio reported that the latest patch received from the vendor
was tested.  It successfully corrected both [redacted] and [redacted]
issues.

Dennis Bowden asked a question about the body of evidence he is
assembling: is there an equivalent to the unclassified SharePoint server
where all of these documents can be posted so that people who only have
access to JWICS or SIPRNET can read them without having to email files
around all the time?  Mr Sampson replied that there is a classified
server and space would be set aside soon.

Regarding the schedule, on Monday next the Beta 2 phase officially
begins with ST&E at STRATCOM.  Geoff McGarrigle from the RM programme
office will be there; Rob Drake from DIA will be there; Russ Savage and
Kori Phillips from the developer will be there.  Don Flint and Corinne
Castanza from DNI CAT will arrive the week of 16th August.

The first few SABI installations after ST&E at STRATCOM will have the
hardest time getting through the CDTAB and DSAWG process, observed
Dennis Bowden.  We shall have to look hard at the body of evidence for
those first sites.  Charissa Robinson asked about the patches called for
in the POA&M: SABI sites will have a very different configuration from
STRATCOM [Editorial note: STRATCOM is essentially a TSABI site] but will
not every change listed in the POA&M have to be tested?  Dennis Bowden
replied that the POA&M will come with a single common patch CD for all
sites; all sites will have to be updated per the POA&M, so all will have
to be tested for all POA&M-changed functionality.

Kevin Miller is going to wait for Kevin Gallicchio's final report before
making the final developer updates to the POA&M.  That report will come
out next week.

Charissa Robinson will be doing a Test Readiness Review (TRR) for CDTAB
in September.  In preparation for that, she is looking at the entire
body of evidence that they have created, RDAC and RMF.

Dennis Bowden: It is the position of the Radiant Mercury Programme Office
that the first few SABI sites can proceed with the first certified RM
5.0 software version in advance of the POA\&M patch, although possibly
with a higher risk assessment.  Charissa Robinson replied that it is
an accreditation decision; it cannot be made without a risk assessment.
Corinne Castanza noted that she is finishing up for DNI CAT a complete
list of findings, annotated with the latest developer responses and
NSA replies to the response, consistent with both risk assessments,
for the body of evidence used to create the report.  Charissa Robinson
concurred and stated that NSA I173 will do the same.

Will it be possible for Dennis Bowden or another Programme Office
representative to attend the CDTAB?  Charissa Robinson will try to
get an invitation to the CDTAB, although the CDTAB does not usually
entertain visitors.  Dennis Bowden observed that IV&V is more likely to
be invited, since they are totally independent of Lockheed Martin, but
IV\&V may not be available this CDTAB because of scheduling conflicts.
Charissa Robinson said that because this is the first time for a new CT&E
standard, it is possible that others might be able to get an invitation
to CDTAB.  She will check on it.

Paul Ozura has on his to-do list to check over all the old items on
the findings list, to verify that no findings have been forgotten and
that all software changes have been tested, for example the [redacted].
Kevin Miller described the fix for that issue, which is a procedural
change only and entails no code changes.

Dan Nichols requested a sidebar with Dan Griffin and Dennis Bowden at
the CDMO Conference, the week after next.

Call ended 1025 EDT with the observation that because STRATCOM will be
testing next week, there likely will not be a classified hotwash telecon
next week, but there may be an unclassified one.  Larry Sampson will
send out an announcement early next week.

After the telecon, Larry Brown noted that this was the best meeting yet.
It looks like it is actually going to happen.  [Editorial note: the
upcoming ST&E at STRATCOM is something the developer has the ultimate
amount of experience with.  I can foresee no way it could be anything
other than successful.  The mechanism is solid, the problem is well
understood and all the testers and certifiers have been involved in it
for a year.  The people doing the installation and testing are highly
experienced.]

Kevin Miller brought up the fact that the Legal department of Lockheed
Martin should be consulted regarding source code changes to the COTS
software that Eric developed in the process of fixing the SNMP problem
(three JAR files).  Those code changes should be released back to the
community.  The developer is going to do it.

My current task list (in priority order, most urgent first):

1. Continue arranging appointments with Paul Ozura, Frank Sinkular,
Dan Nichols, and Dave Wallick in D.C. in early October.  2. Implement
a numerical model for the risk--effort pricing equation in Matlab.
Verify that acid tests hold.  Extend the paper with the new results.
3. Prepare presentation and talk for Nice in three weeks.  4. I am
working on the Crosstalk article again.  I have an idea how to explain
the first case study in terms of accreditor behaviour incentives.
5. Accreditor surveys.  I understand the problem much better now.
I need to be able to describe these surveys in the Crosstalk paper.
6. Get the other two surveys done for background on the case studies.
7. Finish methodology chapter (waiting on final survey questions).
8. Write first draft of confirmation report and send to Dr Martin.
9. Prepare talk for 13th August at Lockheed on crypto maths.

To be done as soon as possible:

10. Update dissertation Table of Contents.  11. For Chapter 3 or 4,
start writing the interpretation of the first case study results and
second case study preliminary results. (This will be needed for both
confirmation of status and for answering likely audience questions
in France.)  12. Compare NIST SP 800-53A to ISO 27001/2.  13. Update
the schedule.  14. Apply for confirmation of status; submit written work.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory,
St Cross College, Oxford
