weekly activity report 154 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 17 September 2010 07:07  
To: Niki Trigoni; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn  
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.w.auten@lmco.com; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; tom.a.marso@lmco.com  

Weekly activity report no. 20100916.1627 (GMT+1) sequence no. 0154, week -3 MT

In attempting to model accreditor--accreditor communication interactions
in a way that shows correspondence with observed events [Is there a word
for `similarity of behaviour' the way `isomorphism' means `similarity
of form'?  If there is, I have not been able to find it.  Mizruchi and
Fein (1999) use the term `mimetic isomorphism' in exactly the way
I mean.], I have gone back temporarily to the Common Criteria as a
(comparatively) bare-bones example of the type.  The Common Evaluation
Methodology (CEM) of the CC sponsoring organisations spells out out a
suggested sequence of tasks and procedures that evaluators must perform
on the ST and evidence of a product in evaluation.  To expand on the 5
C's of accreditor motivation, we can see that in the first case study,
$L$ were acting in accordance with C2 and C3 (Corporation and Contract,
respectively) in their evaluation if we consider C2 to encompass, through
$L$'s policies, practises and procedures, the CEM.  It is illuminating
to consider events seen from the perspective of $D$ in light of a new
article by Spicer (2010) in which the author points out that both the
environment and the evaluated configuration are the responsibility of
the customer, something that is not well communicated or understood by
PP end-users.  I emailed Patti Spicer and asked for a meeting with her to
discuss this; she responded and suggested a telecon to include Charles
Nightingale and Hal Forsberg, after they return from a business trip.
I will arrange for that telecon as soon as possible, either next week or
(more probably) the week after.  It should clear up some unknowns that
are hindering me from getting a numerical simulation working in MATLAB.
It is also directly related to the Crosstalk article on my task list.

I have been reading a new book by Hahn and Valentine (2010) on MATLAB,
working through their examples and trying to figure out how to solve
my problem.  The suggestion I keep getting is to model it as a physical
system (think of springs pulling a weight in different directions), get
it working in the simple case first, then start adding adjustment factors
to account for complications.  [It doesn't help that this week's xkcd
is about exactly the same thing.]  Accreditor behaviour, deriving from
accreditor behaviour incentives, is proving to be surprisingly difficult
to model.  I said I would have a paper ready this week to submit to this
year's ACSAC describing the solution, but tonight all I can do is outline
the problem and describe a bunch of failed solutions that do not work.
I am not going to submit the paper in its current condition.  I would
rather have a good paper accepted by a later conference than a poor
paper rejected now.  I read some advice in Patterson (2001) and Vardi
(2010) on hypercriticality and peer review that made it seem essential
to concentrate on the introduction and the first page, because that is
what reviewers read.  I am still planning to submit the abstract of
this paper to the Comlab DPhil Student Conference tomorrow, but I am
not comfortable submitting to a national conference a problem without a
solution that works---someone might see it and publish a working solution
first.  I was talking to a couple of people in Lockheed earlier today,
and when they asked about my thesis I rattled off a (cogent, I thought)
description of my latest thinking on the subject---and suddenly I thought,
`oh no, what if that gets out before I can publish it.'  I need to do
more work on it before I can put this before peer review, and right now
I am worried about getting scooped.

Reading this week: besides the MATLAB book, I found a large tutorial by
Pennock and Wellman (2004) on 'Markets in Uncertainty' and I am going
through it looking for inspiration.  To add to my literature survey,
I found a reference to the earliest written description of one of the
principles I am trying to encode: `Fear of harm ought to be proportional
not merely to the gravity of the harm, but also to the probability of
the event.' in \it{La logique, ou l'art de penser} by the monks of the
monastery of Port Royal (1662), quoted in translation in Bernstein (1996),
citing Hacking (1972).  Bernstein recommended another book by David (1962)
on the discovery of probability, which I will probably end up buying
from Amazon.  In the simplest analysis it is true, of course, but compare
to Schneier's (2008) observation that people tend to attribute a larger
value to potential losses than they do to potential gains (apparently
modified by the distance between the change and their current state).
All these forces need to be modelled in the numerical simulation if it
is to have any chance of predicting accreditor behaviour during ST&E.
Someone else recommended Augustine (1997) on how engineers communicate.
I have it on order.

I helped out Ronald Kainda this week with a reference that he was
looking for; I remembered having seen it in a very weird paper by
Frøkjær and Hornbæk (2002).  I am giving another talk on
TEMPEST next week to the Red and Blue Teams at Lockheed Martin who
specialise in testing internal systems for intrusion vulnerability.
They expressed an interest in hearing about new vulnerabilities that
have been discovered within the last 10 years and attacks that could
be implemented at low cost.  I adapted an earlier talk I gave about
optical, conducted, tribo/acoustic, thermal, and induced emanations.
That talk is scheduled for 23rd September.

There was no RM 5.0 CT&E hotwash telecon this week.  The participants
(at least the developer) are still waiting for the pre-CDTAB results.
NSA I173, I733, and DNI CAT have submitted their final draft reports
to UCDMO for the pre-CDTAB.  I predict there will be a telecon on 23rd
September to discuss the reaction of the CDTAB.  I received a kind
response from Paul Ozura to my email asking for help getting accreditors
to talk to me; he said that the problem likely stems from the fact that
they do not know who I am, at least in my rôle as a University of Oxford
researcher, and that consequently they are `afraid that what you write
may fall into the wrong hands that could use what is said against them.'
He asked me to show how I am approaching the accreditors, and offered
to talk to a few DAA reps and try to open some doors.  I will send a
detailed reply to Mr Ozura in the morning.

I learnt some more background this week about the funding relationship
extending from the U.S. Navy, through the PMO, to the $R$ CDS developer.
The Navy has never fully funded the programme since it took over
sponsorship from the first sponsoring agency; the programme has been
funded at-risk by the developer for more than a year at present.
Suddenly, two weeks before the end of Fiscal Year 2010, the developer
has received ALL the money from the Navy, and needs to figure out how
to spend the money during this FY before it disappears again October 1.
To not spend the money would hurt the feelings of the COTR, who worked
very hard to get it.  Capital expenditures are impermissible; it must
be used for operating expenses, e.g., software development, research,
maintenance and enhancements.  The developer has a new roadmap, something
formally documented for the first time, that should improve response
time to inverse funding crises like this in future.

There is an executive currently asking around the corporation why there
are two CDSs in Lockheed, TMAN and RM.  The difference, of course, is
that TMAN has not been under continuous development for a decade the
way RM has; TMAN have been around for a long time, but not continuously
developed.  In fact, it appears that TMAN started over recently.  Their
code, at present, is probably better than RM's, but their functionality
is much less.  In the UCDMO community, almost no one has heard of TMAN;
they have all heard of RM.  RM has competed with TMAN many times, and
never lost a proposal.  The developer expects that this executive will
go away after a while.

I owe a draft Confirmation Report to Dr Martin on 24th September.
I intend to get that done on time.  I had no meeting with Dr Martin this
week; there have been too many other things going on.  I will set up a
meeting next week.

My current task list (in priority order, most urgent first; work on
tasks in this order):

1. Finish abstract for the Comlab DPhil Student Conference (due tomorrow).
	This is the first two pages of the updated `information asymmetry'
	article that I decided not to submit to ACSAC; I need to find a new
	conference for it to go to.
2. Set up a meeting with Patti Spicer, Charles Nightingale and Hal
	Forsberg at CSC.
3. Write a detailed justification for Paul Ozura.
4. Read the Pennock and Wellman (2004) tutorial on uncertainty markets.
5. [for Lockheed] Finish quarterly progress report, FY 2010 summary
	progress report, experimentation report and technical presentation
	for the Air Force (this weekend).
6. Write confirmation report for Dr Martin (due in one week).
7. Finish reading the MATLAB book; fix the broken numerical model;
	get a simple option mechanism based on the Dutch pattern working;
	implement `acid test' in MATLAB.
8. Do small tasks: update first case study chart with audience
	suggestions from VALID 2010 conference; draw fault-tree diagrams for
	$R^\prime$, $R^{\prime\prime}$ and $S^\star$; draw up organisation
	charts for $R$, $R^\prime$, $S^\star$, $R^{\prime\prime}$, $N$, $L$
	and $G$; document the current set of anonymisation codes.
9. Request a meeting with Dr Martin.
10. Crosstalk article: immediately after writing confirmation report,
	write the interpretation of the first case study in terms of
	accreditor behaviour incentives; write a preliminary overview of
	second case study based on final reports from NSA I173 and I733, DNI
	CAT, ST&E, and the POA&M Validation Report.
11. Based on what I learn from Paul Ozura, rework the other two planned
	surveys done for background on the case studies.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory,
St Cross College, Oxford
