weekly activity report 168 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 24 December 2010 07:10  
To: Niki Trigoni; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn  
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.w.auten@lmco.com; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; tom.a.marso@lmco.com  

Weekly activity report no. 20101223.2221 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0168, week 8+3 MT

Weather delayed getting back from travel by three days.  Heavy snowfall
in Great Britain on Saturday prevented getting to Heathrow airport.
When it became clear that I could not get to Heathrow in time for my
scheduled flight, I called the airline to re-book.  I figured they could
re-allocate the seat, since that was one of the few flights that did get
out of Heathrow all day.  But the roads were impassible; I could not get
to Heathrow; I couldn't even get back to city centre to catch a train.
Buses were not running; cabs were not running.  I was able to get a
reservation on a flight out of London City airport two days hence.  I took
a bus to London the following day to try to get there in time for the
early morning flight, and discovered the Docklands Light Railway (DLR).
When I got to the airport at 5am they had no record of my ticket, so I
had to re-book, but I made it onto a delayed flight to Frankfurt, which
was the only thing going anywhere.  London City airport was unbelievably
crowded.  I missed the scheduled connection out of Germany but managed
to get wait-listed on a flight to Washington, D.C. that was delayed.
Arrived in D.C. late Thursday night and found that they had lost one
of my bags, so I spent some time in Customs and Immigration detention
because they will not let you through U.S. Customs unless you arrive
with the same number of items you departed with.  The U.S. Customs people
were nice and friendly; they explained the policy---something to do with
security---and went in search of the missing suitcases for me and a few
other people.  The international terminal was almost deserted because
few people were coming in from Europe due to the weather.  They found my
stuff after a while and I boarded a standby flight to Denver at midnight.
Arrived back home early Thursday.

I met with Dr Ashbourn on Friday to discuss my meeting with the assessors
and spent some time Christmas shopping before it started snowing.
I got stranded in city centre when the buses stopped running and had
to walk back to the ring road through the blizzard, which was a stupid
thing to attempt but everything was shut down by the weather and there
was no good alternative.  I talked with Dr Martin several times during
the weekend by email; he was also stranded on the way back from travel.
I sent a copy of last week's report to both assessors; I have not received
their report yet but I wanted to make sure that I understood all their
instructions.  I contacted Julie Sheppard, as requested, and notified
her of the need for a couple more terms to do the new data analysis.
My funding is secure for about another nine months; my funding will be
at risk for only about three months in late 2011.

I will call Dr Martin as soon as possible to plan the way forward after
Christmas.  Meanwhile, I have references on grounded theory to read;
I have to get up to speed on this type of data analysis.  Shamal sent me
some references.  At the present time, I plan to do the third case study
(R'') first, as I have the highest quality data for that one, followed
by R' and then R-zero.  Next travel will be approximately 13th March when
I will come back to Oxford to sit down and get a validation check on the
new data analysis approach and the first case study analysis.  All of the
previous MATLAB work is checkpointed under version control for later.
Dr Martin gave me a report to read; I have not read it yet but will do
so in the morning.  I want to talk to Dr Martin about the review journal
paper that the assessors requested, the plan for doing the three grounded
theory analyses, and plan for submitting chapters for review.

I look at it as an opportunity to learn a new data analysis technique.
I have been taking too many risks; the lowest-risk path from here is
to do precisely what the assessors told me to do, so I will do that.
I need to figure out whether the journal review article that the assessors
wanted comprises Chapter 1 or 2 or parts of both.  I have a new Table
of Contents but I need to sleep some before I rewrite the task list.
I think I should suspend trying to publish, with the exception of the
journal review paper, until the new data analysis is completed.

Next task: look up papers on grounded theory and obtain a licence for
Atlas.ti (qualitative data analysis software).

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory,
St Cross College, Oxford

