weekly activity report 175 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 11 February 2011 04:58  
To: Niki Trigoni; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn  
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; tom.a.marso@lmco.com  

Weekly activity report no. 20110210.1808 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0175, week 4 HT

The R'' developer called an all-hands meeting this week with the new
Vice President of the newly created C4ISR division now designated I2S.
Under I2S, the RM programme is to be merged with TMAN under the TSS
banner.  (I have details of the organisation chart in my notes but do
not reproduce the confidential details in this report.)  The presenter
at the all-hands meeting was the same manager, referenced in a previous
report, who decided that the RM and TMAN programmes should be merged
into a single CDS offering, and the one interesting thing about this
meeting was that the new VP appears still intent that the two programmes
be merged.  The previous VP, over what is now the TSS organisation, is
newly in charge of an internal science resource organisation that will be
spreading advanced technologies into the development organisations.  It is
believed (by the vice presidents) that this will lead to a smooth melding
of the two CDS products and no effect on current users of the systems.
The R'' developers are less sanguine, pointing to vast differences in
software engineering culture, certification and accreditation level of
effort, IV&V and technical approach.  The chief architects of RM and
TMAN have been directed to present to the new division manager a plan to
merge the systems and to report monthly on progress finding synergies
and commonalities that can be exploited immediately for cost savings.
In my opinion, the new division manager sounds like a motivational
speaker and I have never heard so many buzzwords.

On an unrelated topic, but a refreshing example of close reasoning,
I read an article by Vladimir Karnozov titled (in translation)
`Analysis of aerodynamic layout Chinese fighter J-20'.  The author
infers the likely mission of the new Chengdu J-20 aircraft based
on the relationship between its centre of gravity---deduced from the
location of the landing gear---and the canard positioning and engine air
intake length, all features visible on photographs of the plane from
its first public flight in January.  He concludes that the J-20 was
purpose-built for attacking aircraft carriers with anti-ship missiles,
given its flight characteristics of Mach 1.4--1.6 supercruise, internal
weapons carriage, front and side aspect (but not rear) stealth and the
combination of engine performance and fuel capacity, none of which have
been officially released.  The performance profile this aircraft must
necessarily have, given its control surface configuration and the known
power of available engines fits neither a bomber nor an interceptor
nor a fighter, but it does fit the profile of an aircraft designed
to evade AWACS, CAP and destroyer screens around a carrier air group.
The argument was brilliantly reasoned.

I met with Dr Martin this week to discuss progress, reading and plans for
my trip in March.  I reported that in all the reading I have been doing
on grounded theory, sources are beginning to repeat themselves---I keep
coming back to the same references to certain papers, books and articles.
This is an indication that I am getting to the bottom of the literature.
I have been playing with the software tool, ATLAS.ti, trying out
different ways of coding sentences, phrases and attributed quotations.
The methodology seems to be `keep coding smaller and smaller units of
interpretation until a new class of links suddenly becomes obvious',
which is vague but I think I am getting close to understanding the idea
behind grounded theory.  I am getting to the point where I can apply it.

I brought up the problem of connecting remotely to the ISPP seminars
each week.  The connection with OII was supposed to facilitate recording
and streaming of video from the seminar series, but the equipment has
not worked technically so far.  Yesterday's seminar was recorded; Dr
Martin sent me a link to the audio so I could listen to the lecture.
I was grateful not to miss it; Professor Sasse is one of the people
suggested by Dr Fléchais and Dr Jirotka who might be external examiner
for my viva.  The mailing list for reading group stopped working a few
days ago; I forwarded information on the error to the support desk at
Dr Martin's suggestion and they were able to fix the problem.  We talked
about external examiners for a while; Angela Sasse is a well-known user
of grounded theory in software engineering, at least since 2001--2006,
and a lot of the introduction to the methodology that I have obtained
is from papers by her and collaborators.

I did not have much research progress to report this week because
of interactions with the Air Force sponsor who is responsible for
the majority of my funding on the Probabilistic Redaction project.
Last week the sponsor called to ask for a great deal of information
on testing, metrics and status of development; I was provided with a
PowerPoint template and spent hours helping craft a set of slides for
a presentation that the sponsor had to deliver on Tuesday.  By Friday
the sponsor was very happy with the technical content and told us so
in no uncertain terms.  I was surprised then, when on Saturday night he
called in an extremely upset state, saying he was unsatisfied with our
progress and felt misled.  I worked the weekend on a list of questions he
supplied that had resulted from an internal review, and by Monday night
the sponsor was once again happy with the resulting report.  This was
my first experience dealing directly with a funding sponsor, and it
ate up a lot of time.  The only research work I got done in between
was reading.  Late update: the Air Force sponsor contacted me later in
the week to relate that his presentation to the Technical Council went
very well and the metrics were accepted by the chief scientist.  He is
happy with us again and my funding remains stable through September.
I have a meeting with the project manager tomorrow to plan work for the
next three quarters.

Dr Martin warned me to beware of the point of diminishing returns when
reading; there is always one more thing to read.  We discussed the trip
I have coming up to the UK in mid March, and what finished pieces of
writing I could bring with me at that time to get some assurance that
I am on the right track with the new methodology.  I agreed to write up
a schedule and send it to Dr Martin by tonight (see below for details).

The Oxford Security Reading Group will meet next week for a paper
suggested by Anbang.  Reading Group did not meet this week.  I received
an email from Julie Sheppard about registering for Confirmation of Status
before 29th April.  She sent me a copy of Prof. Kwiatkowska's handouts
from a talk to be given later in the week.

I was disappointed to miss Dr Ker's departmental seminar this week on
steganalysis, so I read the published paper that this talk seems to have
been based upon.  The authors found that steganographic channel capacity
(to the upper limit of detectability) appears to be different in kind
from Shannon's limit on the information capacity of a noisy channel.
`It is not the payload itself which is detected by steganalysis.  It is
the changes induced by embedding which are detected, and capacity is more
properly given by a bound on permissible changes...' [Ker et al., 2008a].
Surprisingly, detectability increases slightly with cover image size,
but is proportional only to the square root of the cover size, and is
definitely sub-linear.  The steganographic channel rate, they say,
is best measured by the number of available embedding locations (in
JPEG covers, that would be non-zero DCT coefficients remaining after
lossy compression).  It is thought that the fundamental steganographic
channel limit is $\sqrt(N)\log(N)$ but that has not been proved yet.

Professor M. Angela Sasse of UCL gave the Information Security and
Privacy Programme seminar this week, on the topic of `Human-centred
identity---rhetoric vs reality'.  I was able to listen to Dr Martin's
audio recording of the seminar a few days later.  Besides the examples
of grounded theory I have been examining in her published articles,
Prof. Sasse has been working with the Cabinet Office on a replacement
for the UK identity card.

The old concept of usability, she said, has shifted to one of `user
experience'; it is not enough to automate a correct and efficient process
if no one will use it because either they misunderstand the benefit of
it or see no reason to use the system.  Her PhD student, Adrian Rahaman,
interviewed policy makers, designers and developers and found that policy
makers assumed that usability was something that designers and developers
would automatically build in to a system.  Developers, on the other hand,
assumed that the specifications they were given already contained enough
usability, because usability was a requirement.  The disconnect led to
`undermining the policies that the policy makers started off with.'
(The example given was from several London transport systems including
Oyster card and congestion pricing.)  Usability needs to go into the
specification, said Prof. Sasse.  With biometrics, policy makers are
making the same mistake again.  In order to accommodate the limitations of
available biometric face recognition algorithms, all sorts of usability
barriers are placed in the way of users, every small delay of which
contributes to a longer queue.  Sometimes, she said, the only user that
the system is designed for is the system administrator.

Next she talked about DNA, retinal or iris imaging, and fingerprint
matching.  In a recent analysis of ten years of DNA matching in one
U.S. state, it was found that ten percent of DNA matches were incorrect.
Similarly, fingerprint matching experts have recently shown to be inexact,
inconsistent and ineffective.  The public have misperceptions of the
reliability of DNA testing and digital signatures in court cases.
The average person does not understand how DNA matching or digital
signatures work, so they think the techniques are infallible.

Considering polymorphism, can the data be used in ways it was not at first
intended for?  In Germany, they were careful to choose the DNA markers
selected for storage to make it impossible to infer the ethnicity of a
person from DNA records---whereas in the UK, enough information is stored
to make the same inference possible.  It is even true that some people who
believe in the efficacy of iridology fear that iris identification systems
could leak information about health conditions believed (incorrectly)
to be visible in a person's eyes.  She gave more examples of unintended
consequences extending from nomads in the 1920s to Facebook news updates.

Their continuing research is a work in progress.  The assessment of
whether a property should be rated high or low has not been developed
yet, and preferably should be tied to objective criteria.  They also
need a mapping of profile of levels to acceptance; they have looked at
a few profiles so far, but not all combinations of values.  It is also
becoming clear that they haven't identified all the properties yet.

Next scheduled meeting with Dr Martin is for Wednesday, 16th February at
1700 Oxford time.  The chapters I would like to bring with me in March
are Chapter 2, the literature survey (including all new material on
grounded theory and qualitative research), Chapter 3 on methodology and
most of Chapter 4 on the first case study.  Chapter 4 will be incomplete,
but it will contain a description of the R'' case study, the data, and
the preliminary analysis.  I have a month to write the new material for
these three chapters.  I will update the outline for Chapters 2 and 3
this weekend.

My current tasks, in priority order, are:

1. Update literature survey with references on grounded theory and
	Qual. research.

2. Finish more reading.

3. Import remaining R'' case study source material into ATLAS.ti.

4. Figure out a way to make event traces in the H. unit linkable.

5. [Waiting] Figure out if I can use the chronological record in my lab
	notebook as a source for the `memo writing' activity that occurs
	later [not done yet]

6. Plot tasks on a new Google Calendar as blocks in a 168-hour week.
	Establish limits on non-thesis work times.  [I need this now.  It
	was delayed by Lockheed work.  It will be done by Monday.]

7. Outline the survey journal article that the assessors asked for.
	I still need to find some good examples of how to write a survey
	article [not started yet]

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory,
St Cross College, Oxford

