weekly activity report 178 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 04 March 2011 04:49  
To: Niki Trigoni; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn  
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; tom.a.marso@lmco.com  

Weekly activity report no. 20110303.1615 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0178, week 7 HT
 
GSS report for Hilary term has been submitted.  I kept the report short
this time, as all the detail is in the weekly reports.

I received a letter in the post from the University regarding confirmation
of status.  It seemed to state that I must apply before the end of
Hilary term, which is 12th March.  I am being forced by the calendar
and I dislike that.  All week I have had a very bad flu or a cold, but
I am working in spite of it.  I asked Dr Martin about the letter from
MPLS and whether it meant I must submit a report before it is ready.

Dr Martin and I met Monday at 3:00 PM.  I had prepared an agenda organised
around re-planning all work to get the confirmation report submitted
next week.  That turned out to be a false alarm, as the report is due
Easter, not next week.  For future reference, `the end of week 8' really
means `before week 0 of the following term'.  I will have chapters and the
confirmation report ready by that time.  We talked about what ought to go
into Chapters 1 and 2; Dr Martin said some people put a lot of material
into the first chapter about why their problem is interesting; I need to
fix up my outline of Ch. 1 and balance it over Chapters 1--2 more evenly.

I was advised not to prioritise the GSS report over productive work.
The details should come from my weekly reports anyway.  He sent me a
link to the MP3 of last week's seminar on cyber warfare, a good thing
to do when I am sick in bed.  I am going to try to get over this flu
and get back to productive work.

The set of issues identified in support of the grounded theory of the R''
case study keeps growing.  The programme manager, and hence by extension
the government programme office (GPO), sees the following issues: budget,
cost of certification [forced more by vendor OS product cycles, which
are themselves forced by vendor hardware product life cycle, pincered
from the other end by government insistence on OS certification, which
is slow and affected by both CCTLs and the requirements of the CCRA and
NIAP CCEVS], many site installations on hold waiting for a certified
CDS before they can get ATO, a developer who sometimes does not work as
quickly as the GPO would like, and developer engineering overhead costs.

The developer, on the other hand, sees a different set of issues:
the same vendor OS product cycle problem as described above, but also
software engineer hourly cost, overhead `tax', award fees and the
Contractor Performance Assessment Report (CPAR) rating, the problem of
keeping engineers current, travel budget [always a difficulty], lots of
installations all over the world, IV&V and government regression tester
performance, opaque penetration tester minds, and the unique mode of
operation of pen testers, which are like terminators: they absolutely
will not stop---ever---until they run out of money.

There is relevant material for my dissertation in the article on the
GBU-28 crash development programme in Kopp (2005; revised 2011a).

Contemporaneously, regarding the RM/TMAN umbrella merger, the developer's
Systems Engineering manager (KM) told the developer's technical staff this
week that what was described recently at the (MW) all-hands meeting a few
weeks ago was not correct.  [(MW)] said things at that meeting that were
`the opposite of reality.'  It is not the RM programme manager's (OKJ) or
TMAN programme manager's (SB) intent that the two CDSs are to be merged
into a single (Next Gen) product; they will remain separate software
development organisations developing different but complementary products
that serve primarily, but not entirely, non-overlapping sets of customers.
Previously to those remarks of the new VP, things had been going well
in the sense of getting the two software development organisations to
work together; people were beginning to talk to their counterparts on
the other side, asking questions and sharing information, but then this
speech of his caused friction within the ranks.  The Systems Engineering
manager reiterated to his staff that the umbrella organisation, TSS,
will result in few visible changes within the RM closed area.

For example, he said, one specific instance of friction that occurred
was the sharp shift in perception around the push to sell the MAG
component of RM as a service or library to TMAN.  Lots of people got
on board with that, RM developers were talking with TMAN developers
and information was flowing.  When the story changed slightly to say
that TMAN would incorporate the MAG library for free, sharing ceased.
The rumour was not true; in point of fact MAG will be sold to TMAN just
like any other outside entity, and the revenue will be booked to RM under
the TSS umbrella.  It is not about merging the programmes.  In a later
conversation, the Systems Engineering manager had some interesting remarks
to say about Lockheed Martin (LM) and its competitors in the CDS market.
LM, he said, does not understand guards at all, as a corporation.  The RM
organisation understands them because it makes an extremely flexible
guard that has been installed in countless different environments;
the TMAN organisation understands them a little, because it makes a
special-purpose device that is installed in only one specific kind
of environment for the benefit of a single and homogeneous customer.
Raytheon, the strongest competitor of LM in the CDS arena, gets it.
At conferences, the Raytheon booth on display sprawls across an area half
the extent of the RM developer's entire closed area, staffed with dozens
of uniformed (business casual) Raytheon employees who will talk to anyone
about their product, the Raytheon High-Speed Guard---with the exception
of the RM developer; Raytheon will never talk with the RM developer
at conferences, despite the RM developer offering to share information.
In contrast, Lockheed Martin's booth at conferences is the size of a large
closet, and that space is shared between RM and TMAN.  He listed the
main competitors in the CDS space, in order of share, as LM, Raytheon,
Boeing [Hardwall, a product they bought from somewhere], and ISSE.
(ISSE seems to be going away.)  RM is unique amongst the competitors,
being the only single-box solution; all of the others require multiple
boxes (multiple boxes cost extra space, weight, air and power); Boeing
Hardwall in particular deploys a box for every flow, even in a simple
bidirectional flow situation.  [It's a design trade-off; I can see
accreditation reasons for doing it that way, in the view of some DAAs.]
An interesting story came out of the discussion that I had not heard
all the details of before: a few years ago, Raytheon lost a lawsuit
brought by Lockheed over the Raytheon High Speed Guard; according
to the story, some Raytheon engineers had called the RM technical
support telephone number asking for help with the RM software, but
according to Lockheed Martin's records, they did not have such a unit.
By unfortunate happenstance, the person who answered the phone that day
was the RM programme manager (TF) and the industrial theft was discovered.
Raytheon, according to the story, later reverse engineered the RM CDS
and subsequently claimed compatibility with MAG in their advertisements.
(I have a copy of that advertisement.)  The settlement of the lawsuit,
it was related, specifies that should Raytheon ever offer a CDS, it must
be built of components 80 percent code-different from RM.  (I would like
to get more formal definition of those terms.)  To get the whole story,
I plan to go to the sources (JP/F and TF); I have one meeting arranged
so far to get the details.  I am not completely sure it is relevant,
but one of the tenets of GT is to feed in everything.

The post-certification patch, version 5.01, is done; testing and CR
verification is going on now, but reports so far are that the build is
solid.  FAT dry runs will occur before RMUG, an event which takes place
the first week of April; FAT will commence immediately following RMUG.
The patch fixes a slew of the kind of small bugs that seem only to be
discoverable in production; there have been no major problems discovered
in production since the first post-certification accreditations were
done on 5.0 immediately after UCDMO base-lining and TSABI approval.

The Oxford Security Reading Group met this week primarily to discuss
preparations for the department's Open Day, but also for the Infosecurity
Europe show in April.  Before things got going this time, I told the
rest of the group about a new paper I read by Wei, et al. (San Jose,
California: FAST'11, 15--17 February 2011) on securely erasing SSD and
other flash storage.  The researchers studied the interaction between wear
levelling and secure erase in these devices by reading the chips with a
custom FPGA hardware interface to bypass the Flash Translation Layer (FTL)
under the CHS interface.  They found up to sixteen copies of identical
stored data in non-user-accessible regions of storage and showed that the
ATA security commands ERASE UNIT and BLOCK ERASE do not always work, as
a result of bugs in the drive firmware.  There was a discussion of this
paper in Schneier's blog the other day; one of the comments contains
a detailed description of the engineering of a thermite destruction
mechanism for secure storage, interesting for the thermodynamic and
safety considerations that obviously informed its design.

11th March is the deadline for signing up for a slot in the Open Day
programme.  Shamal suggested a poster `Towards an Information Security
Institute' and we discussed likely visual images for each of the research
topics (example: `observing a point of connection' for CDS), including
Webinos.  The message of the Infosecurity Europe exhibit, said Dr Martin,
is definitely about course offerings, but some space could be set aside
for research opportunities at Oxford.  At the Open Day, we will have much
more space for research.  Might there be anything else coming up, asked
someone, where we could display a poster designed for this purpose, and
make it serve double duty?  I asked the group what message we are trying
to put forth; who are the people likely to attend Open Day, and do they
differ as a population from attendees of the Infosecurity Europe show?
Answer: Open Day attracts large businesses and small local businesses,
plus a few people from Cambridge.  From my perspective of working
for a very large company, Lockheed Martin has a continuous need for
variable-term, extremely short lead-time expert help on an astounding
variety of topics, and [if they knew about it] the company would benefit
from knowing what projects are active in the University.  Company managers
would want to have two things: first, a pre-existing contact arrangement,
since often the need is urgent, especially on proposal work; and second,
a willingness to enter into short-term subcontracts of only a few days
or weeks duration.  This is different from the usual industry--University
relations, which are more oriented towards sponsorship of larger research
projects or facilities.  The comlab is full of people who could validly
sit in for a few hours of a `red team' review on an important proposal,
giving an adversarial viewpoint on the suggested design before it goes to
the evaluator for selection.  All the necessary background is provided
by these proposal efforts, a necessary consequence of the fact that
they always want outsider perspectives; as a plus, the proposal manager
usually has more money at his disposal than time.  I will put a version
of this on the wiki that John set up.

Dr Martin said we should reserve a slot for the Open Day.  The
Infosecurity Europe show is more urgent, the week before Easter; it is
2--3 days turnaround time on poster reproduction.  Video call ended at
0543 AM.

I listened to the audio recording of last week's ISPP seminar given by
Prof. Peter Sommer from LSE on `Defining CyberWarfare'.  `The subject
has changed remarkably little' [since 1996], he told us.  Back then
it included new battlefield technologies, concept of a new doctrine,
industrial espionage or competitor intelligence---the `irregular verbs'
of Bernard Woolley---psychological warfare, logical and physical attacks
on systems.  Prof. Sommer acted as the defence expert in the 1996 trial
of two UK teenagers under the Computer Misuse Act for a 1994 incursion
into USAF systems that had been routed through Columbia, Latvia and South
Korea at least.  The attack was mistaken at the time for the actions
of a large state actor.  Names are important, he said: cyber warfare
(a strictly military problem) vs cyber crime (oh, it's a law enforcement
problem) vs cyber security (it's just a problem for the techies to solve)
vs cyber incidents (can be almost anything).  Gilbert Ryle's `philosophy
as cartography' (from The Concept of Mind) regarding different definitions
of the word `possession', is a good example.

The presenter gave a brief overview of UK and European laws applicable
to computer-related, -mediated or -facilitated crimes.  The treaty
of Budapest (or computer crime convention) in Europe; in the UK, `the
Computer Misuse Act is there when no other regulation is available';
the principle is to prosecute for the substantial offence rather than
the modus operandi.  (This is not dissimilar of the definition of risk
responsibility given by Ross Anderson in his book on security engineering,
I thought.)  The Fraud Act of 2006 is used for money laundering, phishing,
identity theft, and DDoS extortion.  Many taxonomies of cyber attackers
have been published; the absurdity is clear if you look at the analogy to
`car crime'.  The presenter gave lists of surveys and articles attempting
to build up the problem; cyber incidents...nobody agrees what sort
of incidents to count as part of an attack, how to figure the cost of
clean-up, compensation of third parties, loss of revenue, or the really
nebulous `loss of business opportunity'.  There are lots of definitions,
but no coherence.

The situation is similar regarding cyber warfare.  These researchers
limited their definition to something more akin to `kinetic' attack: UN
charter Article 51 provides for certain circumstances in which people can
retaliate: it must be militarily necessary, it must be proportionate,
and it must avoid collateral damage to innocent third parties.
The problem of attribution is the biggest one: [it occurs to me that]
cyber warfare attackers do not wear uniforms interpretable by the enemy.
I liked this statement of Prof. Sommers': `If you can't figure out who
is attacking you, that means that you have to think about a completely
different form of defence...resilience and contingency planning.'
To this researcher's group, the term that particularly appealed was
`cyber weapons'.  Discussion of capabilities, qualities and limitations
of cyber weapons.  A nasty substance is not a weapon until it has been
weaponised, which means it can be controlled and directed.

Taxonomy of motivations for deployment: recreation, propaganda, [civil
disobedience is a new one here], demonstration of illegal power and
intent, disruption of activities [e.g., Stuxnet], as a force multiplier
for kinetic attack, espionage, or criminal purposes.  Reasons why people
go to war.  Stages of war, from recalling of ambassadors to UN resolutions
to the staging of exercises off somebody's coast [this is the point where
cyber weapons probably start to be quietly employed, said Prof. Sommers],
insurgency, brief attack followed by a pause, and then total war.  In the
near future, there could be a cyber element to offensive operations as
localised as a political assassination.  That is an interesting thought.

In the question and answer period afterwards, there was a question about
attacks by state actors against private companies.  In the context of
answering, the presenter said that he feels `there is a good argument for
countries to have a cyber weapons offensive capability and the reason
would be if it is very well researched, if it is very well targeted,
it has the benefit that it might be able to stop something worse without
too many people dying.'  Later, he noted that the private sector is far
advanced over the public sector in the area of resilience and contingency
planning, the only defences that work against an unattributable attacker.

My next meeting with Dr Martin is scheduled for Tuesday, 8th March at
3 PM Oxford time.

My current tasks, in priority order, are:

0. Get rid of this cold.

1. Detailed outline of Ch. 2, 3, 4.

2. Update the literature survey with references on grounded theory and
	Qual. research.

3. Import remaining R'' case study source material into ATLAS.ti.

4. Figure out a way to make event traces in the H. unit linkable
	[on hold].

5. How can I can use the chronological record in my lab notebook as a
	source for the `memo writing' activity that occurs later?

6. Plot tasks on a new Google Calendar as blocks in a 168-hour week.
	Establish limits on non-thesis work times [finally getting to this].

7. Survey article needed for summer [not started yet].

8. Planning for confirmation report that is needed sooner than I thought.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory,
St Cross College, Oxford

