weekly activity report 179 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 11 March 2011 13:21  
To: Niki Trigoni; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn  
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; tom.a.marso@lmco.com  

Weekly activity report no. 20110311.1126 (GMT) sequence no. 0179, week 8 HT

Arrived in Oxford early this morning.  The flight over was uneventful.
Lack of sleep is becoming a problem, however.

I met with Dr Martin briefly this week to report on new information I
received regarding inter-developer interactions in the CDS ecosystem
and how it affects data owner perceptions of the accreditability of CDS
alternatives when the data owners and DAAs specify their architectures.
I received a very long letter this week from one of my correspondents
containing a wealth of specific detail from the developer perspective.
The letter is important, but I am not sure how it fits into the GT
working hypothesis yet.  There is also a problem with confidentiality.
It is clear how to code the information, and how to insert it into my
growing issue network, but the problem is I do not know how much it
would be correct to allow the information to more or less redirect
the emerging direction of the grounded theory.  There is discussion
relevant to the issue in two articles by Geer (1964) and Coleman (1961)
both of which appear in the collection edited by Hammond (1964).  I have
three other people to talk to in light of this new information: JP/F,
TF and GS who were all additionally direct participants in the event.
If I get positive results from two of the three, I will let the sub-graph
have a non-zero weighting factor.  Including this new information accords
well with the recommendations of the methodology; if the GT hypothesis
does not change in light of the new data, then the theory is bolstered.
I will talk with Dr Martin about it when we meet in his office.

I have time booked with Dr Martin after the weekend, during which I
have to go to another site.  I had hoped to meet with Dr Jirotka also
next week to discuss low-level implementation of the GT, particularly
the standard of presentation of evidence, but she is unavailable.
Application for confirmation of status is due the first Tuesday after
Easter; Dr Martin agreed with my intended plan to take all the time
available for preparation of a good report.  There was no reading group
meeting last week, but I will be there for the security reading group
meeting on Wednesday in person.

Monday's seminar with Rt. Hon. David Blunkett, MP reportedly went well.
Dr Martin is going to send me the recording.

The R'' developer in Colorado is deciding how to deal with a request from
the new programme manager in Arizona for a copy of the CDS source code.
On the face of it, he is the new programme manager and if he wants the
source code, all he has to do is ask for it.  The software engineers,
however, are reluctant to hand over their largest trade secret to their
biggest competitor.  Someone suggested to print out the source code
on paper.  Someone else suggested to fax it on the secure fax, which
operates at 9600 baud.

I am thinking of suggesting the paper by Wei, et al. on 'Reliably Erasing
Data From Flash-Based Solid State Drives' from the 9th USENIX Conference
on File and Storage Technologies (FAST'11) in San Jose a few weeks ago.
It is an important topic and an emerging variation on a security concern
that I encounter regularly.  Secure destruction of all sorts of storage
devices becomes the only feasible alternative as the limit of transfer
speed divided into capacity begins to approach the MTBF of physical
devices.  I can talk about this in more detail at reading group if no
one else suggests a paper for Wednesday.

Next meeting with Dr Martin is scheduled for Tuesday, 15th March 2011
at 10am.  I will update the task list afterwards.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory,
St Cross College, Oxford

