weekly activity report 180 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 18 March 2011 18:08  
To: Niki Trigoni; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn  
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; tom.a.marso@lmco.com  

Weekly activity report no. 20110318.1117 (GMT-6) sequence no. 0180, week 9 HT

Arrived back in Colorado late Thursday night.  No problems encountered
in transit.

I met with Dr Martin to present my new plan Tuesday at 10 AM in his
office.  We discussed the plan and made some adjustments.  Application for
confirmation of status is due before Easter; that gives me three weeks
to write the chapters to be submitted with the application, leaving
enough time for polishing the first draft before the application is due.
Short-term objective (3--4 weeks) is COS application with written work
before Easter.  Medium term objective (5--6 months) is COS viva in the
summer with provision of revised chapters bearing change bars two weeks
before the confirmation viva for the assessors to re-review at that time.
Long term objective (slightly less than 1 year) is submission of the
thesis by 13th January 2012.  Outline of the thesis has not changed, but
Dr Martin advised strongly that I should give the assessors a document
that feels like a thesis, not just a set of disconnected chapters.

After that meeting, I had a long discussion with Shamal Faily on
experience with GT methodology.  I brought back a stack of papers to
read, plus more references out of a couple of books from the Bodleian
stacks that I was unable to obtain from university libraries out here.
I have enough material now to complete the literature review of the GT
methodology.  Additionally from Shamal I got his thoughts from recent
experience writing up the results of GT analyses; they are notoriously
difficult to review, he said, and there are ways of writing and presenting
them that can make the findings more clear.  I met with Dr Fléchais
briefly as one of the assessors for my COS; Dr Jirotka was not available
this week.

Reading group this week met to discuss the paper by David S. Wall (Leeds),
`Cybercrime and the Culture of Fear' [J. Info., Comm., & Soc. 11(6),
Sept. 2008, pp. 861--884], suggested by Shamal.  It was one of the largest
turnouts for reading group in quite a while, and turned out to be an
interesting paper despite the heavy influence of literary criticism.
Dr Fléchais mentioned a new book, Fatal System Error, that I should
look at.  After reading group, we waited for John Lyle to escape from
his viva, then took him to the Royal Oak.  Details of the reading group
discussion, Royal Oak discussion, and other meetings are in my notes.

I attended a lecture by Prof. Brian Greene on multiverse theory Monday
evening and read his new book.  I suggested the new paper by Wei, et
al. (2011) on secure clearing of solid-state storage media for the next
reading group.  I will send out an announcement with a link today.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory,
St Cross College, Oxford

