weekly activity report 181 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 25 March 2011 00:20  
To: Niki Trigoni; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn  
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; tom.a.marso@lmco.com  

Weekly activity report no. 20110324.1511 (GMT-6) sequence no. 0181, week 10 HT

For the security reading group, I introduced the paper by M. Wei, et al.,
'Reliably Erasing Data From Flash-Based Solid State Drives' [San Jose,
California: Proceedings of the 9th USENIX Conference on File and Storage
Technologies (FAST'11), 15--17 Feb. 2011].  John and Cornelius were the
only ones there.  Solid State Disk (SSD) storage devices, including flash
memory sticks and ATA/SCSI/1394 magnetic disk replacements, turn out
to have some interesting technical characteristics that interact poorly
with conventional sanitisation algorithms.  This is highly relevant to
the certification and accreditation problem; it is difficult to clear
this type of storage completely and verifiably.  It turned out to be
a better paper than I thought at first; we did find a couple of ways
to improve their methodology, but for the first paper in a new field,
it is hard to argue with, and comprehensive.  The full discussion from
Reading Group can be found in my notes.

No updates to the certification process of R'' this week.  They are likely
out planning the UCDMOC.  I talked with two members of the project team
on the R-prime case study.  I have been thinking about R-zero, but need
to focus on R'' in the immediate time frame.

Progress against plan: I spent the week reading all the references
on GTM that were collected during last week's trip.  I also reviewed
David Blunkett's speech given at the last ISPP seminar, and a new journal
article on threats and vulnerabilities (Johnston2010b).  Shamal Faily sent
me a pointer to a CHI'11 workshop paper on GTM (to appear); he had earlier
given me the topic but not a link to the paper and in searching for it
I found two other relevant journal articles.  I am writing concurrently
on Chapters 1, 3 and 4 this week; ignoring Chapter 2 for now.  I hope
to send the first draft chapter to Dr Martin early next week.  I have
a thesis file in LaTeX now that builds eight chapters plus appendices.
Chapters 4, 5 and 6 are expected to be 25 pages each; it not really
possible to compress a GT case study smaller than that; it was preferable
to break it up into three chapters.  I owe another report to the Air
Force programme sponsor in two weeks, but that will not affect progress
to schedule.  Status: still on track for COS application mid-April.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory,
St Cross College, Oxford

