weekly activity report 182 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 01 April 2011 03:06  
To: Niki Trigoni; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn  
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; tom.a.marso@lmco.com  

Weekly activity report no. 20110331.1901 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0182, week 8+3 HT

In attempting to explain the current state of C&A practice, I had
to go back this week to the standards for DIACAP (DoDI 8510.01) and
its predecessor, DITSCAP (5200.40) and re-think them using current
information.  I watched a very interesting presentation this week from
Steve Welke of Raytheon TCS in which he made the assertion that Assessment
and Authorisation (A&A), in the mould of the NIST interpretation rooted
in SP 800-39 is finally gaining traction in both the SABI and TSABI
worlds (modified in the latter case by CNSS).  The term `C&A', he said,
`...implies a finality that led people in the past to try to pick up an
accredited system and put it down some place else.'  A&A, conversely,
correctly reflects a security authorisation process.  I am trying to
get hold of the author of that presentation so I can cite him properly.
Without a doubt, the R'' case study was the first to apply the NIST
approach in the wake of ICD 503.

I found the treatment of scientific hypotheses in phenomenological
research discussed in an old book chapter by Dalton (1959) highly useful
this week; for research inside organisations, that author gives good
advice on writing up results.  I am lagging my schedule for Chapters
1--4 but confident of getting them done in time to submit for COS; fewer
distractions and more time to work this week are helping tremendously.
For Lockheed, I wrote a contribution on SSD forensics for a capture
manager this week that was inspired by Wei, et al.'s research but extended
in the direction of improved SSD design for forensics-friendly and
emergency-sanitisation--facilitating uses.  In the context of 8570.01-M
training for DAAs, I read the newly issued DoD 3305.13, dated 14th March,
which is relevant to the NIST SP 800-137 continuous monitoring policy
in the context of C&A for NSS.

Status: writing Ch.~2 and thinking about Ch.~3 for COS application in
April.  I will send a chapter to Dr Martin as soon as I have something
written that I am willing to release.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory,
St Cross College, Oxford

