weekly activity report 185 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 22 April 2011 05:01  
To: Niki Trigoni; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn  
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; tom.a.marso@lmco.com  

Weekly activity report no. 20110421.2125 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0185, week -1 TT

GSO.14 and MAT.3 forms were delivered to Julie Sheppard in the department
office on time.  She has offered to route the forms around for me
as necessary to gather signatures.  Dr Martin and I went through the
narrative part of the COS application in a meeting Monday.  He approved
the application and we talked about written work.  I contacted
Julie to ask about deadlines; she assured me that (1) my timetable
for submitting written work to the assessors later in the spring and
summer for confirmation was OK, and (2) I would not miss any deadlines.
She did advise to slightly move up the 5th September date (being the
latest date for submission of written work) to early August so as to give
the assessors enough time, but otherwise the application looked fine.
She reminded me that the whole process must be completed before the end
of Trinity term.

In the application for confirmation of status, I described the argument
of my dissertation thusly: in each case study, certain specific things
went wrong, and on the surface, those things appear unrelated.  But there
are fundamental similarities that are not apparent at first.  If we look
more deeply, we can see how the similarities emerge, and that allows
us to make predictions about the next security accreditation effort.
Once we begin to make predictions, we can try to affect the future in
a controlled manner.  It is a first step towards questioning the way we
are doing security accreditation.

I promised to send Dr Martin a completed Chapter 1 by Easter.  He asked
to see the rest of the outline at the same time.  I obtained some schedule
relief from the Air Force project manager last week so I could concentrate
on school work, which helped.  Dr Martin asked for another meeting
immediately after Easter to discuss the chapter and further progress.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory,
St Cross College, Oxford

