weekly activity report 186 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 29 April 2011 02:38  
To: Niki Trigoni; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn  
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; tom.a.marso@lmco.com  

Weekly activity report no. 20110428.1851 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0186, noughth week TT

Good progress on writing this week although I am short of my estimate.
I believed I would have Chapters 1--3 to Dr Martin for Easter a few days
ago, but I missed it as a result of unforeseen events.  I reported status
to Dr Martin separately, then got back to work.  I had a good writing
day yesterday and made real progress late last night.  I think you will
be pleased with the new introduction.

I attended two relevant lectures out-of-hours this week: firstly, `What
the Security Profession can Learn from the Intelligence Profession' by
Ira Winkler, and an IEEE Computer Society lecture titled `Controlling
the Conversation: Technology and Organisational Decision Making'
by David Alan Grier, E.I.C. of the IEEE journal Annals of the History
of Computing.  Winkler described the Requirements, Collection, Analysis
and Interpretation process used by intelligence agencies and contrasted
it with the focussed but narrow attack forms that individuals have
the capability to mount.  Aptitude is necessary but it is insufficient
or at least inefficient without support from allied resources who can
exploit collection opportunities simultaneously with interpretation.
He made some good points about threat, vulnerability and risk tolerance
that I made note of.  Dr Grier's talk was towards a philosophical theory
of scientific and engineering communication with the general public.

The R'' developer was at the Cross Domain Technical Forum (CDTF)
last week and reported back some interesting material about NSA I8
group, who are recommending and in some cases now mandating new guards
or CDS.  BF is definitely advocating within I8 for R''.  Version 5.01
regression testing was formally witnessed by Dave Aushman (NSA I173) and
the developer is hopeful that the certifier will accept the paperwork
without wanting to run more tests.  The government programme manager
has obtained funding for 5.1 development and is looking at funding 6.0
as well.  In a different meeting, I learnt something new about the
Systems Engineering manager's opinion of one of the IV&V personnel.
It all goes in the grounded theory file for coding and categorising.

My status this week is writing and I am pleased with progress.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory,
St Cross College, Oxford

