weekly activity report 188 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 13 May 2011 02:15  
To: Niki Trigoni; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn  
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; hmbjuggler@yahoo.com;
	tom.a.marso@lmco.com  

Weekly activity report no. 20110512.1520 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0188, week 2 TT

Presently adding new material from earlier papers into chapters 1, 2
and 7.  The inter-accreditor communication model is separable from the
risk market concept and fits well into the motivating example section near
the beginning of the dissertation.  Further, it presents a supporting
contribution in evidence of the main thesis early on to the reader.
In contrast, the `overlapping domains of responsibility and authority'
example from VALID 2010 is more descriptive in nature and is explained
in a later chapter, although it may be shown briefly in the first chapter
in support of the main argument.

When I got `stuck' at one point in writing this week, I went back to
coding and categorising more of the R'' case study evidence.  I have to
get chapters 1--3 written as soon as possible but also I need to show
progress on the analysis in Chapter 4 for the assessors this summer.
I owe chapters to Dr Martin more urgently.  I will work on those.

Other activity: the MPLS division graduate office notified me Thursday
that paperwork for confirmation of status had not yet been received in
their office and I was in danger of missing the deadline; I made some
calls and a few hours later the lost forms were found and sent onward
with signatures intact.  All necessary approvals are in place now.

I wrote some web pages for Cory Doctorow for a talk he will be giving
in Oxford next week.

In my field research, the R'' developer, to encourage uptake of DoD
8570.01-M amongst software engineers and installers on the programme,
has begun giving gifts to those passing the IAT or IAM Level II exams.
This seems to be an initiative at the level of the site engineering
manager; it not happening at the business unit level or higher in the
building.  I recommended again to the systems engineering manager that
the department, because it is a CDS software developer with customers
in the defence department and IC, needs at least one more IASAE III
certification on programme, and preferably two, to meet the minimum
requirement.  The developer, however, is pressing for IAT Level II certs
everywhere in hopes of claiming those are sufficient later.

I will be attending the 5th UCDMO Conference, 1st to 4th August 2011 in
Chicago, demonstrating the Air Force redaction project.

Status: writing and rewriting on Ch. 1--3.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory,
St Cross College, Oxford

