weekly activity report 189 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 19 May 2011 23:31  
To: Niki Trigoni; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn  
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; hmbjuggler@yahoo.com;
	tom.a.marso@lmco.com  

Weekly activity report no. 20110519.1203 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0189, week 3 TT

I sent a note on `Detecting Data Exfiltration With an Application to
Insider Trading' to a friend in the Army Information Technology Agency
(ITA).  He had sent out an urgent call for help Monday on social media
vulnerabilities and insider threats.  The proposed method here is a
broadening of the usual cross domain functionality of guarding plain
text by matching regular expressions.  It extends the matching function
to the detection of euphemisms, `talking around' classified information,
or use of deliberately obfuscatory language in email.  It currently uses
a variation of our alternate (Hadoop based) approach to the probabilistic
redaction project for the Air Force, but applied to a completely different
kind of data set.  I omit details here, but I filed a disclosure.

Regarding the third case study, the developer's Systems Engineering
manager related this week that the government programme office
had notified him that T------ from NSA I173 confirmed that the
post-certification patch would go to CDTAB in June and would be approved
at the next DSAWG.  I have been experimenting this week with a new
coding form for the other case studies that I want to use to document
the evidence of CC&M for the assessors.  I think it is better than the
free-form method I used before, but was developed from it.

Miscellaneous: I found evidence that Update 3 to DoD 8570.01 is expected
soon, and there will be changes to Table AP3.  I formally requested
travel funds for the UCDMO conference in August.

I came up with a supplementary argument in Chapter 1 that improves the
introduction to cross domain systems for non-specialists.  I still owe
chapters to Dr Martin urgently.

The MPLS division graduate office requested could I please re-file the
GSO.14b form.  The previous deferral of confirmation did not `take'
for some reason.  The paper letter I ultimately received from them had
the wrong term (Hilary rather than Trinity as agreed) printed on it.
I updated the GSO.14b form and sent it via Fedex to Dr Martin for his
signature.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory,
St Cross College, Oxford

