weekly activity report 191 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent:  03 June 2011 02:35  
To: Niki Trigoni; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn  
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; hmbjuggler@yahoo.com;
	tom.a.marso@lmco.com  

Weekly activity report no. 20110602.1725 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0191, week 5 TT

I met with Dr Martin to discuss part of chapter 1, a slightly unusual
section intended to illustrate the particular problem faced by cross
domain system installers in the field.  Developing a writing style
has been a continual effort and I wanted another opinion on it as a
proposed opening.  As I thought, it was unsuitable for the beginning
of the chapter.  However, it could nonetheless be used, I was advised,
a few pages further in if the example were framed in a different way.
Dr Martin cautioned me on overuse of acronyms and abbreviations early
on, recommending to be careful about use of terms throughout the first
chapter, in the mode of teaching the reader a specialised language at
first, then abbreviating later on.  I am following all of his advice.
He asked to see a complete chapter the following week; it need not be good
but it must be complete.  I will have it for our next meeting tomorrow.

Afterwards, we chatted for a bit about news in the department and a paper
I'd read in IEEE Security & Privacy.  News of an attack on Lockheed
Martin's internal network by means of the RSA SecurID compromise in
March had appeared from Reuters a few hours before; we talked about the
security impact of wholesale two-factor authentication token replacement
and what other disclosures might come to light in the next few weeks.
We talked about what other things could be deduced from the limited
information released by both sides.

In Deer Creek, I requested the government programme manager at
SPAWARSYSCEN-SD to give his endorsement (required) so I can attend the
UCDMO conference 1--4 August.

Next meeting with Dr Martin tomorrow 1445 BST.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

