weekly activity report 192 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 10 June 2011 06:31  
To: Niki.Trigoni@comlab.ox.ac.uk; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn  
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; hmbjuggler@yahoo.com;
	tom.a.marso@lmco.com  

Weekly activity report no. 20110609.1805 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0192, week 6 TT

I met with Dr Martin and gave him a complete draft of the first chapter.
He pronounced it good enough to give to the assessors already, and
recommended not polishing the chapter any more at this time.  Rather,
I should work on the next chapter and keep up the pace.  We discussed
the conventions of re-using sentences or paragraphs already written or
information that has already been published elsewhere in the dissertation,
and had a long discussion about academic writing style.  Finally, I have
the level dialled in.  Afterwards we discussed some current topics on
SCADA vulnerabilities and the response to RSA's two-factor authentication
compromise last week.  I had a short item published in RISKS this week
about transcription errors in publication dates affecting literature
searching in Google Trends.  Two people emailed me about it.

In California, the government sponsor D------ G------ (SPAWARSYSCENPAC)
emailed Monday to say that the certifier R------ D------ gave verbal
permission to field the post-certification patch version 5.0.1P at once.
When the signed letter is received by the programme office, formal
permission to field 5.0.1 to TSABI sites will be updated on the UCDMO
baseline.

I listened to the recording of Prof. R. Anderson's ISPP seminar Monday on
`The Dependability of Complex Socio-Technical Infrastructure', thanks
to Dr Martin who sent me an MP3 file.  There were one or two stories
in his lecture I'd not heard before; one of them, regarding GCHQ and CC
certifications, is relevant to my thesis.

Next meeting with Dr Martin tomorrow 1445 BST.  GSS reports are due
next week.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford

