weekly activity report 193 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 17 June 2011 03:08  
To: Niki.Trigoni@comlab.ox.ac.uk; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn  
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; hmbjuggler@yahoo.com;
	tom.a.marso@lmco.com  

Weekly activity report no. 20110616.1918 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0193, week 7 TT

I discussed chapter two with Dr Martin in our meeting Friday.  It was not
as far along as the first chapter because the grounded theory methodology
is not something I have spent years thinking about.  I received advice to
clarify my rationale for the methodology and to improve the organisation
of the chapter.  The methodology varies across cases because the type of
evidence I have available is completely different for each.  I argue in
my introduction to the methodology chapter that having three different
perspectives on a single object of study is both necessary and sufficient
for scientific justifiability of my thesis.  We further discussed LaTeX
formatting, presentation, and how to estimate a good length for chapters.
This week's meeting was particularly productive, judging from the length
of the notes I typed up afterwards.

Dr Martin gave me a pointer to a possible source for the GCHQ story
related by Prof. Anderson in his seminar last week.  I will track
that down.

I submitted an invention disclosure on one aspect of the problem
this week.  Not sure if the application will go anywhere, but it
establishes priority.  I found a very interesting report from the
director of operational test and evaluation in the Pentagon and the
Under Secretary of Defence for Acquisition, Technology & Logistics.
The summary of the report disputes the opinion of system developers
that procurement delays are the direct result of testing requirements,
and finds that delays are the result of problems identified by testing,
not the testing itself.  I think the full report, if I can get a copy
from DOT&E, will have some good quotes in it.

We had another meeting scheduled this week when Dr Martin was in Germany,
but network problems reduced our communication channel to email-only.
I was asked where my chapter two draft was and I promised to get it back
to him shortly.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford

