weekly activity report 194 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 24 June 2011 05:26  
To: Niki.Trigoni@comlab.ox.ac.uk; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn  
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; hmbjuggler@yahoo.com;
	tom.a.marso@lmco.com  

Weekly activity report no. 20110623.1824 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0194, week 8 TT

I am still trying to finish Chapter 2 and have started writing Chapter 3.
For confirmation I need to have Chapters 1--3, part of 4, and Appendix
A entirely completed by the end of July.  I received a letter from the
MPLS graduate office this week telling me to apply for confirmation
of status---which I did before Easter---and reiterating that I should
submit before Friday, 13th January 2012.  I am confident I can finish
writing up by then.

Working in a sense on Chapter 3 already, I searched for an explanation
of the special outlook common to accreditors and certifiers.  I think
I found it in Whyte's characterisation of `the organisation man'; the
actions and words I observed from several participants in the first
case study are a nearly perfect match for what Whyte described in 1956.
This is why I am late delivering the second chapter; I needed the right
way to illustrate the methodology I was struggling to describe.  I will
turn in a complete Chapter 2 to Dr Martin, I hope, by Monday.

I got Shamal's dissertation today.  I can look at how he wrote up a
grounded theory chapter.  I hope that audio recordings of the ISPP
seminars by Dr Price and Dr Wright will be available on the web site
soon so I can listen to them.

GSS report was turned in on time last week.

There was a report recently of an interesting new information leakage
problem.  It was on Bruce Schneier's blog this morning [1].  Two lawyers
were charged with insider trading after they allegedly deduced upcoming
mergers and acquisitions from the titles of documents in the firm's
document management system [2].  There was enough information in the
titles of documents to leak useful amounts of confidential data with no
need to read the documents themselves, which would have left an audit
trail if the documents had been accessed by an unauthorised associate.
The titles were not so protected, and users were storing information
in the titles.  It is like a combination of the aggregation problem in
classified information and an error sometimes made by database designers:
storing information in the key (it makes normalisation more difficult
later).

References:

[1] T. Harbert. 'Catch Me If You Can'. Law Technology News, 1st June 2011.
	URI: http://www.law.com/jsp/lawtechnologynews/PubArticleFriendlyLTN.jsp
	?id=1202494769505&slreturn=1&hbxlogin=1

[2] United States District Court, District of New Jersey.  'Complaint for
	Violations of the Federal Securities Laws: Securities and Exchange
	Commission, Plaintiff v. Matthew H. Kluger and Garrett D. Bauer,
	Defendants'.  Case No. 11-cv-01936-KSH, 2011.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford

