weekly activity report 195 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 01 July 2011 04:50  
To: Niki.Trigoni@comlab.ox.ac.uk; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn  
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; hmbjuggler@yahoo.com;
	tom.a.marso@lmco.com  

Weekly activity report no. 20110630.2019 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0195, week 8+1 TT

This was not a productive week for writing, due to personal business.
Travel arrangements for the UCDMO conference were finalised and paid
for; during times when I am not demonstrating the prototype, I will
be able to attend the rest of the conference.  I applied for one more
term of student loans to cover travel and conference expenses over the
summer and Michaelmas term.  I still need the U.S. government sponsor's
approval that is necessary to get into the conference and visit request
from government security to pass clearances.

I worked on the new grounded theory coding form.  It is part of the
methodology and belongs in Chapter 2, but depends on org charts not
described until Chapter 3.  I am late delivering a complete Chapter 2 to
Dr Martin.  I thought I could do it by 27th June, but failed to deliver.
Tomorrow I will stop writing Chapter 3 and get Chapter 2 done.

I attended two virtual seminars this week: `Leveraging Social Media for
Early Indications and Warnings of Instability and Unrest' (IEEE CS) and
another on Lockheed's test of different malware scanners at the network
edge, comparing in detail the differences in results found by each.
I have also started reading Shamal's dissertation, principally to see
how he wrote up a grounded theory in his Chapter 9.

I need the entire month of July to write Chapter 3 (the first results
chapter) and a good part of Chapter 4.  Date not set for confirmation
of status yet, but it should take place in August or September, at the
convenience of the assessors Drs Jirotka and Fléchais.  I have not
been in close reporting contact with those two since the beginning of
the year; probably I should email them both, describe the work I have
done in response to their advice, and book a time for the viva.  I need
to talk to Dr Martin about that plan; I'll request a meeting next week.

The cross domain technical architecture board assigned a new technical
risk rating to version 5.0.1 this week.  K------ M------ and D------
B------ attended the meeting 29th June.  The board revised the
technical risk from `high' to `medium', good news for the developer.
The earlier version 4.5 had a medium risk; 5.0 was evaluated `high'.
The difference is directly attributable to changes the developer made
in response to CDTAB concerns about technical, data, and attack risk.
Few other CDSs are rated `medium'; most are rated `high' with the
exception of null-functionality data diodes that might get a `low'.
This CDTAB go-around amounts to the SABI approval sought by the R''
developer.  The board highly praised the developer's OSP process,
described earlier.  The COTS TCB patching problem had been universally
ignored by CDS developers until now; the board said they intend to
force all other CDS developers to follow the OSP model.  The board
recommended additions and changes including guard-specific IAVAs to
track OSP application compliance; CDTAB were reportedly happy that the
developer solved that problem for them.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford

