weekly activity report 196 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 08 July 2011 03:15  
To: Niki.Trigoni@comlab.ox.ac.uk; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn  
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; hmbjuggler@yahoo.com;
	tom.a.marso@lmco.com  

Weekly activity report no. 20110707.1930 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0196, week 8+2 TT

I met with Dr Martin today.  We hashed the three sub-parts of my thesis
statement back and forth a few times, and talked about framing academic
arguments.  I reported that the tenure of project managers in combined
software development and certification & accreditation projects seems
to be more important than first thought.  Corroborating my own evidence
from the second and third case studies, a National Audit Office report
published in the UK this week identified project manager turnover as an
important contributing factor in the failure of the FiReControl project.
This is supported by a recent IEEE paper by Weissman and Levin (2011)
and a 2010 memorandum written by Maj. Gen. Flynn (USA) regarding DCGS-A.
The aforementioned conclusion is an observational finding; the second
part of the thesis is interpretive (claim: that the problem is inherent to
cross domain system accreditation and manifests in repetitive re-testing)
and finally the third part is prescriptive or exploratory (claim: it can
be solved by means of controlled channels without violating the global
security policy).  It is a well-balanced thesis.

I have twenty-seven weeks left before the submission deadline.  That is
enough time, but the immediate hurdle is confirmation of status.
I received an email from the MPLS graduate office this week saying that
they have processed my application and I can submit written work for
the assessors any time.  Dr Martin and I agreed today that I will send
the written work at the end of July.  To get there, the first thing to
do is to give him the complete Chapter 2 by midnight Wednesday evening,
followed by Chapter 3.  Next meeting set for 1500 BST (0800 MDT) Friday,
15th July.

The R'' developer's systems engineering manager reported this week that
CDTAB findings on version 5.0.1 will be provided to the DSAWG next
week for what is expected to be routine SABI approval.  This may be
followed by some minor paperwork at the UCDMO, but it is expected that an
updated baseline will be announced at the UCDMO conference next month.
Interestingly, switch-out of the COTS LDAP server in favour of open
source software is expected to greatly reduce the memory footprint in
addition to being a significant cost savings per installation site.

I owe the Air Force a quarterly progress report, which I will write
tomorrow.  We are finishing the alternative network representation
for demonstration of the redaction system at the UCDMO conference in a
few weeks.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford

