weekly activity report 197 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry
Sent: 15 July 2011 05:44
To: Niki.Trigoni@comlab.ox.ac.uk; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; hmbjuggler@yahoo.com;
	tom.a.marso@lmco.com

Weekly activity report no. 20110707.1930 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0196, week 8+2 TT

My house flooded after a week of heavy rain in Colorado.  Some time was
lost to clean-up.  I had promised to have Chapter 2 done by Wednesday
night but I did not.  I have a meeting with Dr Martin in the morning to
explain that.

I purchased admission to the UCDMO conference technical tracks for $600.
I will be permitted to attend conference sessions when I am not running
the demo for the Air Force.  I submitted the quarterly progress report
on time to my Air Force funding sponsor.  That AFRL contract runs out at
the end of the fiscal year in October; my funding will be at risk for
the last three months of 2010.  Fortunately, I also heard from Oxford
this week that a student loan was approved.

This week I met with the systems engineering manager for my annual
performance review.  He validated my recent analysis that the distribution
of experience in the developer's engineering staff is skewed toward
long tenure on the project.  They have a favourable turnover rate,
something unusual, but are at risk of one person retiring in the area of
systems engineering.  Without reinforcement, they are `one bad day away'
from losing their systems engineering capability.  We talked about how
to improve coverage in that area.

I attended virtual seminars on cloud security and an IEEE/CS lecture
on transforming legacy systems by Grady Booch.  I met on-line with the
DPhil student conference committee and agreed to act as a referee.

There are 26 weeks to submission; date not set for confirmation of
status viva.  I am planning a trip to the UK mid to late August.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford

