weekly activity report 198 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 22 July 2011 00:42 
To: Niki.Trigoni@comlab.ox.ac.uk; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn 
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; hmbjuggler@yahoo.com;
	tom.a.marso@lmco.com 

Weekly activity report no. 20110721.1608 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0198, week 8+4 TT

I met with Dr Martin last Friday.  We began talking about data retention
and laws on personally identifiable information and the Trustworthy
Systems call for research proposals from the ministry of defence.
The deadline for proposals is 13th September; Dr Martin has an idea for
one and I would like to work on it.  The Centre for Defence Enterprise
people are keen for security accreditation of COTS systems, he says;
this is a potential application area for my research.

Currently planning to submit written work to the assessors 15th August
for a viva a few weeks later.  I emailed Dr Jirotka and Dr Fléchais
regarding a viva the first full week in September.  I have not heard
back from either.  Three weeks or so are left to finish writing those
chapters, and the UCDMO conference will eat some of the time.

I made real progress on the results portion of Chapter 3 this week.
Chapter 2 on methodology is still stuck; Dr Martin advised not to
spin my wheels, just write the material out of order.  I have to break
out my grounded theory coding and analytic memos for the assessors to
view; presently all of that is embedded in a huge notes file, ordered
chronologically and in context therein, it is true, but also cluttered
with status reports.  I'll reformat the material by itself into an
appendix; one coding manual recommends that for dissertations even
though it would be left out of a published article.  I finalised the
security model for accreditors I am using; it is the same as the one in
Trusted Solaris 2.5.1 before they weakened it in TSOL 8, a generalisation
of Bell--LaP with the strong star-property and an explicit controlled
interface channel for non-hierarchical flows.

Preparing for the UCDMO conference in about a week; I wrote a data sheet
for the system to be demonstrated at the conference and got it approved by
the funding sponsor and the government programme office.  I am preparing
to talk at the conference, if required, on how we developed it and how
it works; it is still a very researchy product.

The R'' developer is once again---in 2011 yet!---suffering the same
problem of hardware end-of-life dates mismatched with OS recertification
cycles as they experienced in 1998, 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2004.
The systems engineering manager is trying to predict availability of
hardware that will run Oracle Solaris 10, the only certified version of
the operating system, until a trade study can be done and the decision
made (by the government programme office) whether to host version 6.0
of the application on SE Linux or Solaris 11.  I may be tasked to help
with the trade study on SE Linux.

NIST released a draft for public comment of Special Publication
800-53 Appendix J, their Privacy Controls Catalogue.  It is part of
Revision 4, expected around December.  Revision 4 will address privacy,
insider threat, mobile and application security, as well as gaps in
access control, certification & accreditation, and security policies.
It is relevant to the developer because Rev. 4 will be the certification
criteria for version 6.0, since porting to a new operating system triggers
a recertification.

Next supervisor meeting tomorrow at 15.00 Oxford time.  There are 25
weeks to submission; date not set for confirmation of status viva.
Possible travel to UK during the first full week of September.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford

