weekly activity report 199 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 29 July 2011 03:50  
To: Niki.Trigoni@comlab.ox.ac.uk; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn  
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; hmbjuggler@yahoo.com;
	tom.a.marso@lmco.com  

Weekly activity report no. 20110728.1916 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0199, week 8+5 TT

Dr Fléchais replied to my email that 7th September would be a suitable
date for confirmation of status.  Dr Jirotka has not replied yet.
That week, if both assessors can agree on it, would be ideal.

I worked, as planned, on separating the grounded theory code book out
from my chronological notes file.  Locating and linking all the relevant
analytical memo notes to each codon is taking up most of my time.
I am almost done with it.  Additionally, I am coding separately for
proprietary and sensitive information in hopes of saving time later.

I met with Dr Martin last Friday again.  I looked over the Trustworthy
Digital Systems call for proposals; the deadline is 13th September and I
want to submit a research proposal after I turn in written work for COS.
Dr Martin told me to get the MoD green paper with the specifications
for proposals in it from the portal.  We discussed travel to Oxford
for confirmation of status and Skype obliged by failing mid-conference.
I think it shows respect for the assessors if I attend in person, and I
remain chary of depending on teleconferencing for critical functionality.
I reported on preparations for the UCDMO conference next week including
the demonstration of the probabilistic redaction tool at the Air Force
Research Laboratory exhibit there.  I am leaving in one day for Chicago.
Late Friday I was asked to give a talk Monday to a group of VP and
director-level executives of Lockheed about the project; that is now
done, and a dry run earlier the same day for software engineers in the
department yielded good (i.e. hard) questions from the audience.

Saturday, I attended the quarterly LM information assurance
`un-conference'.  Bharat Shah spoke on a new Security Controls Assessment
Database application he is developing; I talked later with him about
getting a copy of it or of his progress reports.  His tool is being
designed to link NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 3 security controls assessment to
the associated software requirements, and to present government security
evaluators with every relevant piece of information from an overview down
to the details.  Available commercial tools for this purpose, viz. Exacta,
are incredibly expensive.  I was asked again to contribute a talk about
the UCDMO when I get back from the conference.

The R'' developer encountered two interesting certification-related
events this week; I assisted with the developer's written responses to
the government.  The first was regarding the DoD requirement for Host
Based Security System (HBSS), a requirement considered risky by cross
domain system developers.  B------ F------ has made it known throughout
DoD from his perch at NSA that cross domain systems are to report through
SCAP, not run HBSS.  I wrote the justification.  Later in the week, an
extremely interesting discussion happened between the State department,
the programme office, and the certifier regarding risk assessment of
a proposed foreign sale.  I wrote the developer's risk assessment.
I am not sure yet how much of that I can use because of security.

I have a list of companies and people to talk to during the UCDMO
conference.  Next meeting with Dr Martin tomorrow morning.  There are
24 weeks to submission.  If Dr Jirotka can make it, I am planning travel
to Oxford the week of 5th September, but have not bought tickets yet.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford

