weekly activity report 200 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 06 August 2011 00:57 
To: Niki.Trigoni@comlab.ox.ac.uk; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn 
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; hmbjuggler@yahoo.com;
	tom.a.marso@lmco.com 
 
Weekly activity report no. 20110805.1727 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0200, week 8+6 TT

Finally getting caught up from the UCDMO conference.  I succeeded in
meeting with most of the people I needed to talk to, and collected
21,000 words of data relevant to my thesis.  I am in the process of
adding it to the file of grounded theory notes to code and categorise.
Going to the conference was worthwhile; I got many necessary concepts
clarified at the primary sources.

Friday last week I met with Dr Martin before both of us were about
to leave on travel.  I told him about the new book I was reading
(Rost, 2011) which is relevant to my thesis, and about my plans for
the UCDMO conference.  I reported that I was still working on the code
book underpinning the grounded theory but expected to have that done in
another day or two.  (That estimate must be extended until 7th August,
because I spent all week either listening or retyping my notes sixteen
hours a day, every day of the conference.)  Dr Martin and I talked about
COS and decided to hold off a week before pinging Dr Jirotka again about
the September date for a viva.  Dr Martin advised a way to handle it:
I should ask the assessors to name a deadline for submission of written
work; that will serve to get from them the real date by which they intend
to read it, and at the same time implicitly reminds them to set a date
for the viva.  Julie Sheppard reminded me of the deadline to submit
written work, and also to give the assessors time to complete the viva
before the end of September.

Advice I received: what the assessors want to see is evidence of progress
and a convincing argument that I can finish.  It is traditional to
highlight the contributions claimed in both the introduction and
conclusion; since all chapters should be represented, all material
should be covered.  Do not spend time polishing words already written,
at this stage.

I reported a busy week last week spent preparing for the UCDMO conference.

Other activity: Comlab DPhil student conference programme committee
meeting tomorrow.  There are 23 weeks to submission.  Still hoping for a
COS viva the week of 5th September, but the date has not been confirmed
yet.  I need to submit written work for the assessors in about ten days.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford

