weekly activity report 201 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 12 August 2011 02:12 
To: Niki.Trigoni@comlab.ox.ac.uk; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn 
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org; chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com; Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; hmbjuggler@yahoo.com; tom.a.marso@lmco.com 
 
Weekly activity report no. 20110811.1318 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0201, week 8+7 TT

I am working on chapters---to be turned in soon.  I emailed the
assessors again this week to ask for dates for a viva and submission of
written work.  Dr Jirotka is out of contact until Monday; I will look
for a response from her after.  Timing is not yet completely urgent,
but Julie asked me to have confirmation done before October.

The DPhil Student Conference programme committee met Saturday.  I am
administering EasyChair this year.  We expect to have the call for papers
released soon.

Several interesting papers were published at the USENIX Security Symposium
this week.  The most relevant was Checkoway, et al. on 'Comprehensive
Experimental Analyses of Automotive Attack Surfaces'.  They showed
remotely exploitable data exfiltration that goes beyond previous
successful attacks against the ECU.  In a footnote, the authors relate
that industry engineers have clarified that the separation of CAN buses,
such as it is, was done for bandwidth reasons, not safety isolation.
This is yet another argument in favour of wider deployment of cross
domain systems.

I obtained more data and evidence this week related to my second and
third case studies.  I have a great excess of data, with more coming in
all the time.  It feels scientifically improper not to include it all,
but I must prioritise.  Focusing on writing instead.

At the UCDMO conference, the redaction tool I and others have been
working on for two and a half years was successfully demonstrated to the
funding sponsor.  Funding runs out 30th September; I am still responsible
for my part of the system documentation and the contract final report.
I will have to travel to the laboratory in Rome, New York some time in
late September to deliver the system to the Air Force.

Miscellaneous: there are 22 weeks to submission.  Still hoping for a
viva the week of 5th September, but that date has not been confirmed yet.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford

