weekly activity report 204 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 02 September 2011 00:37 
To: Niki.Trigoni@comlab.ox.ac.uk; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn 
Cc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com; diane@dldrncs.com;
	Joe Loughry; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; hmbjuggler@yahoo.com;
	tom.a.marso@lmco.com 
 
Weekly activity report no. 20110901.1633 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0204, week 8+10 TT

I met with Dr Martin last Friday to discuss arrangements for the conf. of
status viva next week.  The purpose is to convince Dr Jirotka and Dr
Fléchais that I have followed their guidance, that I am on track to
finish the research and writing in the specified amount of time, and
that they should confirm my status and keep moving forward.  It gets me
off their plate, moves in the direction of another successful finish,
doesn't waste anybody's time, and allows them to extract a solemn promise
from me that I'll finish in time.  To that end, I am polishing my most
effective argument: written chapters.  I gave those to Dr Martin on the
29th, as agreed.  Dr Martin kindly offered to print the chapters for me,
saving the expense of Fedex, which I deeply appreciate.  He asked for
some changes which I am doing now.  I will send updated PDFs to the
assessors as soon as I can manage it---tonight, with luck.

When I talk to the assessors I will ask them to set a new final submission
date two terms hence.  The 13th January 2012 date is unreasonably soon,
I assert, because that date never moved despite the confirmation of
status being delayed.  I will ask for the conventional amount of time to
elapse between confirmation of status and submission.  I do not expect
to need all that time, but I shall ask for it.  I received automatically
generated emails this week about my University Card and email accounts
all expiring at the end of next term; I cannot risk that happening in
the middle of writing up.  The assessors should recommend a new finishing
date, and then my library card will keep working.

More data continues to arrive on two of the three case studies.
In several conversations this week with developer engineering managers,
it developed that the government programme office has underfunded the
developer by a large amount, over a million dollars this fiscal year.
The developer must transition eighty or ninety task orders from the old
BOE to the new one, causing a severe overhead gap lasting 2--3 months with
the full transition taking a year.  Together with a product on the GSA
schedule now, the developer has more than one incentive to write direct
contracts in future.  When the developer does that, the Navy can't tax
the funding.  This has significant effects on engineering decisions in
a way that Grounded Theory is actually pretty well suited to explain.

I also unexpectedly obtained new data on the third case study, shedding
more light on the relationship between the developer and the systems
integrator from 2004--6.  Details omitted because I haven't had time to
anonymise it.

Miscellaneous: work continues on the OXFORD-CS-2011 student conference
committee.  At Lockheed, five evaluations came in from technical reviewers
on the MG-03529 disclosure; I need to write a response for the IPRB
in advance of their ordering a search for prior art, which costs lots
of money.  I owe a first draft of the poster to the funding sponsor for
probabilistic redaction next week; also travel to New York is confirmed
for 26th September to give a final report to the funding sponsor.
My highest priority at the moment is to send the revised chapters with
change bars to the assessors in PDF.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford

