FW: weekly activity report 205 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 08 September 2011 15:13 
To: Joe Loughry 

Weekly activity report no. 20110908.1400 (BST) sequence no. 0205, week 8+11 TT

Confirmation of status achieved.  I met with the assessors Dr Jirotka
and Dr Fléchais for approximately two hours at 10am today.  They gave
me a very hard time, but the final recommendation was to confirm status,
add two more terms, and add a co-supervisor who is an expert on grounded
theory.  I was praised on the coding of the R'' case study (CS1) but they
said I misunderstood the analysis task and needed to re-do it.  So I am
only half done with CS1, not all done as I had thought.  The examined
me closely on my estimated time to complete CS2 and CS3, now that I have
experience doing CS1.  They criticised my lack of a model linked to the
theory and explained that use of the Atlas.ti software on CS2 and CS3
will help make that linkage explicit.  They want to see CS2 and CS3 done
using the software tool.

Dr Fléchais will act as co-supervisor; I spoke with Dr Martin afterwards
and he is OK with that.  It is not an uncommon arrangement for someone
working on an obscure sub-area to have two supervisors.  Dr Fléchais
is the local expert on grounded theory and will stop me going down any
blind alleys trying to learn it by myself.

I documented everything said in the viva immediately afterwards and from
my meeting with Dr Martin, then went downstairs to talk to Julie Sheppard
about filing the paperwork.  She recommended waiting until early December
to send in the forms, and advised that extensions are only granted one
term at a time, so it will have to be done in Michaelmas and again in
Hilary term.

I reported to everyone I need to and now have a couple of dissertations
to read, recommended because they contain examples of the new analysis
I need to do.  I got one of them from Dr Fléchais and told him I would
be in contact as soon as I get home from travel.

Other activity: I attended reading group in Oxford this week; the
discussion was a good one (details in notes).  My funding sponsor
requested emergency changes to the poster for their scientific review
board this week; I did it in the middle of the night so they could
have it by the end of the day their time.  They were satisfied with
the response.  I wrote a blog post for systems security.  The student
conference programme committee is about to send out its call for papers.
OUSS lecture this evening.  I'll fly back Monday after spending the
weekend; the cost of flying earlier would have been £800 extra and
I need to minimise expenses.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford

