weekly activity report 209 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 06 October 2011 21:52 
To: Joe Loughry 

Weekly activity report no. 20111006.1403 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0209, noughth week MT

I met with Dr Martin this week.  I reported activity since our
previous meeting and gave a proposed timetable for completing my work.
DGS comments on GSS reports came out this week; DGS only noted on
my report the need for extension terms as previously agreed with the
assessors in the confirmation of status viva.  I am still waiting for
the paperwork to make its way to the MPLS graduate division office;
Lucy Ronaldson in that office has told me that my student registration
will be fixed as soon as it arrives.

The timetable I gave in this week's meeting is purposefully compressed
to try to avoid back-loading of work this time.  All known obligations
were specified (AF contract final report and software user's guide due
30th October, IPRB meeting teleconference 10th November, IPRB review
materials due 28th October, and an in-person review of progress with
both of my supervisors in Oxford in late December or early January).
The timetable schedules work on case studies CS1, CS2, and CS3 through
the end of January.  Tasks and due dates are to be put into a table and
percent completion for each reported with every status report.  Dr Martin
is concerned about the amount of analysis in my head that has not been
written down yet; we decided it would be good for me to supply a little
written work with every status report just to keep the writing activity
moving.  He wants me to get all my results on paper so it can be examined
in the viva.  The present timetable wraps up around Valentine's Day;
I shall try to stick to it and we'll see how dates needs to be adjusted
later.  We set a definite next meeting after reading group next Tuesday.

Reading Group this week discussed the paper `The Developmental
Duality of Information Systems Security' by Richard Baskerville
[J. Management Sys. 4(1), 1992]. suggested by Shamal.  I joined the
welcoming get-together for new members of the department this afternoon
via Skype; I am interested in Prof. Creese's experience at QinetiQ on
trusted information sharing.  I saw her in the room but was unable to
get to talk with her.

No progress yet on finding new funding at Lockheed past 1st November.
I talked with a couple of managers and have calls into several more.

Table of progress report on analyses and interpretations:

Chapters 1 and 2 need the specific work as described in viva.
Chapter 3 on CS1 current status: 50% done (needs model linking coding
	to grounded theory).  Estimated completion date: 31 October.
Chapter 4 on CS2 current status: 5% done, waiting until CS1 is properly
	completed.  Estimated time to complete: 2 months.
Chapter 5 on CS3 current status: 0% done, waiting until CS2 is done.
	Estimated time to complete: 1 month.
Chapter 6 and 7: current status: 5% done, waiting until end of January
	to work on.

I will attach a few thousand words of new writing to next week's report.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral student in the Computing Laboratory
St Cross College, Oxford

