weekly activity report 210 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 14 October 2011 07:48 
To: Joe Loughry 

Weekly activity report no. 20111013.2336 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0210, week 1 MT

Security reading group met this week for the paper `Automating Security
Mediation Placement' by King, et al. (2010), suggested by Cornelius.
There was a good discussion part-way through about implicit vs explicit
information flows.  I met with Dr Martin briefly after reading group,
reporting that I have been reading a number of papers on declassification.
This is at the heart of the release decision made by cross domain systems
and it is ultimately the mechanism of the release decision that must be
approved by accreditors.  I thought of comparing the academic view of
the question to a working accreditor's understanding of the problem,
and to look for overlaps and gaps.  I will send something new written
on the new model for the grounded theory in Chapter 3 tomorrow; several
unexpected requests from the funding sponsor took all my time for the
last day and a half.

Still worrying about funding; I talked over contingency plans with
Dr Martin the other day.  I am still looking for a new job; the JAGUAR
group in Boulder, Colorado is still a possibility, but I remain concerned
about starting a new job because of the distraction from dissertation
work that might entail.  If faced with a choice, I might just turn down
the job and focus everything on my thesis work.  I am not sure if I have
enough money to be able to do that.

I reported making steady progress on Chapter 3; I updated the percent
complete on that task to 60 percent.  I need to meet with Dr Fléchais,
and I haven't.  Outside school, I must finish the contract final report
for Probabilistic Redaction due 30 October, a few minor updates to
the user's guide, and prepare a presentation for the IPRB review in
November.  I did some IT work this week for the Scientific Society and
the OXFORD-CS-2011 student conference committee.

The CS1 developer is hopeful of getting a decision from the government
programme office next week on which operating system to take a chance on
in version 6.0.  They have significantly increased the planned scope of
the 5.1 patch version to carry the cross domain system through December
2014 when Solaris 10 goes out of vendor support.  When that happens,
the certified version drops off the UCDMO baseline list of approved
solutions, so 6.0 is crucial.  The systems engineering and engineering
staff organisations will meet formally with the programme office in
Colorado next week.

Next meeting: 18th October 2011 at 1600 BST.

Table of progress report on analyses and interpretations:

Chapters 1 and 2 need the specific work as described in viva.
Chapter 3 on CS1 current status: 60% done (needs model linking coding
	to grounded theory).  Reading on declassification.  Estimated
	completion date: 30th October.
Chapter 4 on CS2 current status: 5% done, waiting until CS1 is properly
	completed.  Estimated time to complete: 2 months.
Chapter 5 on CS3 current status: 0% done, waiting until CS2 is done.
	Estimated time to complete: 1 month.
Chapter 6 and 7: current status: 5% done, waiting until end of January
	to work on.

I have some new material written on the declassification operation as
it drives accreditor risk tolerability.  I want to try it out on the
student conference but the deadline for abstracts is tomorrow evening.
I will show you what wrote tomorrow.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

