weekly activity report 211 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 20 October 2011 21:18 
To: Joe Loughry 

Weekly activity report no. 20111020.1320 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0211, week 2 MT

I am writing a review of declassification papers from 1982--2009
for Chapter 2.  I had hoped to have a few pages ready in time for
the student conference but reviewing has begun already and I must
complete the reviews I am responsible for.  Regarding written work, I
ran across these papers by accident only after discovering the keyword
(`declassification') they were indexed under.  I am also reading the
MITRE technical reports from 1973--76 where Bell and LaPadula published
their security model; I realised I had never read the original source
and declassification is all about security models that contain leaks
by design.  It seemed important to write this review paper now because
it is exactly the sort of question an examiner would ask at the viva.
The review paper might turn out to be something I could publish later,
but primarily it is being written for Chapter 2.  I promised written work
with every weekly status report from now on, but it was not ready yet.
I am writing, though.  Trying to get back on schedule and make progress
faster, I am following the methodology.

I met with Dr Martin early this week; I reported that the MPLS graduate
division office finally received my paperwork from the department
and released an enrolment certificate.  I sent the GSO.25 form for
co-supervisor arrangement to Dr Fléchais.  My student loan funds came
through at last.  Dr Martin and I talked at some length about Lockheed
and some changes I may soon be making to my work/school balance so I can
focus without interruption on school.  I have been unreasonably distracted
with Lockheed work this month and it is slowing progress on Chapter 3.
Realistically, I will continue to be pulled in multiple directions
like this until November 1, but not afterwards.  We talked about page
limits, the ISPP seminar series, the student conference, and scheduling.
I need to talk with Dr Fléchais about the Atlas.ti analysis and how long
he thinks it will take.  First, however, I have got to finish writing
reports for the Air Force to close out that contract.  The sponsor came
back twice this week with emergency requests for more work.  As part of
the fallout, I have half agreed to teach a statistics class some time.

Next meeting Wednesday, 26th October at 1400 Oxford time, 0700 my time,
before the ISPP seminar on mobile phone security.

Table of progress report on analyses and interpretations:

Chapters 1 and 2 need the specific work indicated. Writing a review
	article on declassification.
Chapter 3 on CS1 current status: 60% done (needs model linking coding
	to grounded theory).  Estimated completion date: middle of November.
Chapter 4 on CS2 current status: 5% done, waiting until CS1 is properly
	completed.  Estimated time to complete: November and December.
Chapter 5 on CS3 current status: 0% done, waiting until CS2 is done.
	Estimated time to complete: January.
Chapter 6 and 7: current status: 5% done, waiting until end of January
	to work on.

I will show the declassification review section to my supervisors after
I send the final report to AFRL.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

