weekly activity report 212 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 28 October 2011 03:39 
To: Joe Loughry 
 
Weekly activity report no. 20111027.1947 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0212, week 3 MT

I received the assessors' report Friday by airmail.  As I told Dr Martin,
this week was hopeless to make any progress at all in the face of what
is required to close out the FA-8750-C-0006 contract.  I will look at
my thesis again Monday.

Security Reading Group met Tuesday to discuss the paper `seL4: Formal
Verification of an OS Kernel' by Klein, et al. (2009), suggested by
Justin.  Several people sent around notes this week about new papers
appearing at CCS'11, some of them relevant to cross domain systems.
I listened to a presentation by John Morrison on the annual Cyber Defence
Exercise (CDX) conducted by NSA against service academy cadet teams.
Fifty or so NSA people on the red team play against students at eight
academies; students are given certain legacy systems (occasionally riddled
with malware) that they are required to keep functioning during the test.
The grey cell meanwhile provides ongoing operational traffic, playing the
part of operational missions who have to keep working through the attack;
if their traffic is delayed or dropped, the blue team loses points.
Scoring is automated.  There was a video made of the most recent contest;
I am trying to get a copy of it.

The quarterly progress report and annual summary report to the Air
Force have been submitted; I must finish the final technical report
this weekend in addition to a presentation for the patent review board
and some updates to the user's guide.  All the reports were delayed by
other managers giving me unplanned tasks all week, all of which had to
be done immediately.  In contrast to all these assignments, I don't even
know if I will have a job in two weeks.

I met with Dr Martin this week Wednesday.  I reported that I would be
tied up writing contract final reports for the FA8750-09-C-0006 contract
through the end of this week, but free after.  Dr Martin said the GSO.25
form has been processed and encouraged me to meet with Dr Fléchais as
soon as possible.  We discussed what is likely to happen at work and I
reinforced that my only priority is to complete my research and finish
my dissertation.  We chatted about some technical aspects and then Dr
Martin encouraged me to meet with Dr Fléchais to get moving again on
the grounded theory once I am out from under the Air Force contract.
A meeting with Dr Fléchais will help to plan the schedule and what
tasks exactly I need to accomplish to finish.  I reported that I have
updated the estimated time to completion of tasks on the chart to keep
them accurate and reflecting of reality; some estimated November dates
have now moved into December and January.

Next meeting is scheduled for 1st November 2011 after reading group.

Table of progress report on analyses and interpretations:

Chapters 1 and 2 need the specific work indicated. Writing a review
	article on declassification.
Chapter 3 on CS1 current status: 60% done (needs model linking coding
	to grounded theory).  Estimated completion date: December.
Chapter 4 on CS2 current status: 5% done, waiting until CS1 is properly
	completed.  Estimated time to complete: December and January.
Chapter 5 on CS3 current status: 0% done, waiting until CS2 is done.
	Estimated time to complete: February.
Chapter 6 and 7: current status: 5% done, waiting until end of January
	to work on.

I will show the declassification review section to my supervisors after
I send the final report to AFRL.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

