weekly activity report 213 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 04 November 2011 07:48 
To: Joe Loughry 

Weekly activity report no. 20111104.0118 (GMT-6) sequence no. 0213, week 4 MT

I finished writing the final technical report for the Air Force
Research Laboratory contract. I wrote several referee reports for the
OXFORD-CS-2011 conference, and updated the conference web site. The
programme committee will meet this week to evaluate submissions. I
responded to the comments from the evaluators on my application to the
IPRB patent review board and the attorney search results for prior art
in preparation for the board meeting next week.

I met Tuesday afternoon with Dr Martin.  I reported much activity but
no progress at all on thesis work.  Air Force contract requirements for
quarterly and annual summary reports were delivered, leaving only the
final technical report.  I worked a few hours on a possible new funding
source, BAA 10 09 RIKA `Cross Domain Innovative Technologies', but I do
not know if I should even pursue that work.  The amount of time demanded
by Lockheed is increasing without bound.  I have meetings booked tomorrow
with an HR manager at Lockheed and with my L-code to figure out what to
do next.  Wednesday, I met with a trusted financial advisor to look at
my accounts and determine what I can afford to do.

Dr Martin and I talked about the ISPP seminar on mobile phone theft;
he sent me the speaker's slides.  OXFORD-CS-2011 programme committee
work is almost wrapped up; the local committee members will run the show
and the conference dinner. There was no meeting of the security reading
group this week; I have a couple of papers I would like to suggest but
no time to prepare, so I haven't put one forth.  I reported that I have
no more than week-to-week funding presently.  I promised to meet with Dr
Fléchais and set a schedule after submitting the final technical report.

Our next meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, 8th November 2011 after
reading group.

Table of progress report on analyses and interpretations (unchanged from
last week due to working full-time on the final technical report):

Chapters 1 and 2 need the specific work indicated. Writing a review
	article on declassification.
Chapter 3 on CS1 current status: 60% done (needs model linking coding
	to grounded theory).  Estimated completion date: December.
Chapter 4 on CS2 current status: 5% done, waiting until CS1 is properly
	completed.  Estimated time to complete: December and January.
Chapter 5 on CS3 current status: 0% done, waiting until CS2 is done.
	Estimated time to complete: February.
Chapter 6 and 7: current status: 5% done, waiting until end of January
	to work on.

I will go back to work on the declassification review section in the
morning.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

