weekly activity report 214 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 11 November 2011 06:59 
To: Joe Loughry 
 
Weekly activity report no. 20111110.2309 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0214, week 5 MT

I attended a webcast by Steve Welke on certification and accreditation
under the SABI, TSABI, and FISMA unified processes.  Separately, I
talked with Dr Ben Calloni about a talk he gave at IEEE METROCON 2011 on
`Automated Vulnerability Path Assessment'.  Their research has not been
published yet but contains a method for systematically deciding whether
to accept the residual risk in an accreditation, using a mathematical
approach to address the weakness space.  In response to a question
about the Common Criteria, he said one reason companies go offshore for
evaluation is because the NSA evaluators and validators that oversee
NIAP CCEVS have it as a secondary duty; this causes validation events
to be postponed when other work becomes more pressing.  Vendors going
overseas for their evaluations do not seem to have that problem.

The presentation I gave to the IPRB today was successful; the board
ruled that a patent application should be filed. The Air Force funding
sponsor accepted the final technical report with minor changes.  I have
been assisting another group with their initial approach to the same
Air Force Research Laboratory sponsor.

Security Reading group this week discussed the paper `User Study,
Analysis, and Usable Security of Passwords Based on Digital Objects'
by Biddle, et al. [IEEE Trans. Inf. Forensics and Sec. 6(3), 2011],
suggested by Andrew Paverd.  After reading group I met with Dr Martin,
reporting that I have arranged things with Lockheed.  The exact manner
of leaving is still indeterminate and arrangements will take some time
to conclude, but it put Lockheed on notice that the amount of time
they have been demanding is greatly excessive and I am quitting them
to focus on my dissertation.  I am removing roadblocks to finishing.
Dr Martin asked that I meet with Dr Fléchais and I promised to do
that as soon as I have enough information to plan a new schedule.
Next meeting scheduled for 17th November.

Table of progress report on analyses and interpretations (unchanged from
last week)

Chapters 1 and 2 need the specific work indicated. Writing a review
	article on declassification.
Chapter 3 on CS1 current status: 60% done (needs model linking coding
	to grounded theory).  Estimated completion date: December.
Chapter 4 on CS2 current status: 5% done, waiting until CS1 is properly
	completed.  Estimated time to complete: December and January.
Chapter 5 on CS3 current status: 0% done, waiting until CS2 is done.
	Estimated time to complete: February.
Chapter 6 and 7: current status: 5% done, waiting until end of January
	to work on.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

