weekly activity report 216 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 24 November 2011 21:32 
To: Joe Loughry 
 
Weekly activity report no. 20111124.1358 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0216, week 7 MT

GSS report has been submitted. The CS department 2011 Student Conference
wrapped up successfully. I submitted the SF-298 form for publication of
the abstract and final technical report for probabilistic redaction. Two
current proposals want to use the technology in their systems; I have
been assisting the proposal teams to the smallest extent possible.

Security Reading Group met to discuss the article `Cyber War Will Not
Take Place' by Thomas Rid (J. Strat. Studies 2011, pp. 1--28). The author
argues that cyber attacks are not warfare, instead falling into one of the
categories sabotage, espionage, or subversion. He cites von Clausewitz
repeatedly but ignores jus ad bellum and jus in bello, possibly because
they weaken his argument. Leaving aside the question of whether the
instrumentality of force in the furtherance of political ends must of
necessity be destructive, an assertion I can't verify without going back
to the original German, I argued that cyber attacks are akin to cold war:
an endless progression of harrying, unattributable annoyances carried out
by proxies; the differences are that this new Cold War is multilateral,
and the proxy combatants are criminal rather than political in nature
for reasons having solely to do with ready availability. I am not sure I
convinced more than half the group of my alternative interpretation. I
speculated that the article was Chapter 1 of a book we have not yet
seen. Dr Fléchais and I disputed over whether the Enigma cracking of
WWII was more subversion or espionage. I argued for subversion, as the
instrumentality of the use of information gained thereby was not to
direct attacks, but to move convoys away from the wolf packs and get
inside the Axis military command and control. I disagree that subversion
is necessarily less technical than sabotage. I said I thought this would
be a forgotten paper some day, but others predicted it will be heavily
cited---as having been wrong.

I met with Dr Martin briefly after reading group. I reported little
progress due to assisting two proposal efforts that both want to use the
probabilistic redaction algorithm. Proposals are due to the government
no later than 1st December, after which Lockheed will have a claim on
less of my time. Dr Martin asked if I had talked with Dr Fléchais yet;
I said no, but have since contacted Dr Fléchais to request a formal
meeting to discuss how I can make better use of the ATLAS.ti software.

I volunteered for next week to bring the Siri protocol analysis report of
Applidium to Reading Group; it has some interesting privacy implications
in addition to the technical details of the successful break of the
protocol. The original report has since disappeared from sight.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

