weekly activity report 217 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 02 December 2011 07:20 
To: Joe Loughry 
 
Weekly activity report no. 20111201.2226 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0217, week 8 MT

Dr Martin and I met via Skype on Wednesday; I reported that the AFRL
sponsor notified me yesterday that `Probabilistic Redaction' will be
published as a journal article next year; it is undergoing peer review
now.  I reported some progress on thesis work in the area of formal
and informal systems (interview with a new informant) and we discussed
it in the context of email retention policies.  I reported that I have
been working on the certification process model but having trouble making
what Dr Fléchais wants, and that I had arranged to call my co-supervisor
the following day.  Tuesday, I met with managers at Lockheed regarding
transition plans.  I will fax the GSO.15 form for time extension, as
expected, to Dr Martin tonight.  Next meeting scheduled for 7th December
2011 at about 5pm Oxford time.

The security reading group met this week to discuss the Applidium report
titled `Cracking Siri'.  I was interested in this report because the
Siri functionality sounded familiar when it appeared a few weeks ago;
sure enough, Siri is actually PAL---a DARPA project from 2003 with
a number of papers written about it.  Andrew Paverd mentioned a paper
he'd read on speech-to-speech natural language translation that focussed
on shifting electrical power requirements from client to server; like
Siri, PAL unloads processing from the client to save battery capacity
in the field, an important design consideration for tactical devices.
Originating as it did from a DARPA request, the power consumption
trade-off seen here suddenly makes sense.  The protocol observed
over-the-air is an interesting combination of security and openness;
Cornelius speculated that the ease of hacking it may reflect a design
decision of Apple to open it up a bit more later, as the client accepts
a certificate signed by any root CA.  The ACE HTTP method used here
suggests to me that SSL proxies used by organisations to look inside
HTTPS connections through their firewalls are more lenient than I would
have thought; Apple must have tested this connection method extensively
and chosen it for maximum interoperability, but what it tells me is that
MITM firewalls are monitoring, not enforcing.  Andrew Paverd wondered
what other sensor data the iPhone 4S might be transmitting along with
the device ID, text, and raw voice.  The apparent openness of the
protocol may reflect an intention to extend Siri service eventually to
devices that lack unique IDs; tablets look like phones to the network,
but laptops don't.  The interesting part of this report was not the hack
itself, but all the questions it raises.

I met with Dr Fléchais for an hour Thursday via Skype.  I first briefly
updated him on my work finishing the probabilistic redaction project for
the Air Force and the effect it had on my thesis progress.  Then we got
down to work.  We had a long discussion about grounded theory.  The place
where I am stuck is at the stage of modelling and validation of models.
I have got about as far as a person could be expected to get in isolation,
he said; it is time to begin collaboration in earnest, and regularly.
It is the only way to achieve good models.  Dr Fléchais gave me three
ways to validate, and I related how I have already done some of the
third type.  Documentation of it is key for the examiners, though.
It was agreed that I should immediately begin coding CS-1 in ATLAS.ti.
The size of my data is unusually large, which causes a problem for
grounded theory; Dr Fléchais wants to see regular reports of percent
completion of the raw data items beginning immediately.  I promised to
provide them; by tomorrow I will have a rough count of CS-1 and begin
to report status in the requested manner.  Dr Fléchais will be closely
involved in the categorisation step.

We talked about specific methods for interpreting data.  I recorded much
more in my notes after the call.  From here on out, it will take very
diligent focus to complete on time, but I was assured that the drastic
measures I have taken recently are the right ones, and the result will
be a high quality dissertation.  It was an extremely helpful meeting.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

