weekly activity report 218 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 09 December 2011 06:06 
To: Joe Loughry 
 
Weekly activity report no. 20111208.2129 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0218, week 8+1 MT

I am learning to get around in ATLAS.ti with my CS-1 data.  Not yet
proficient with the software, but making progress.  Dr Fléchais asked
for a rough count of the number of data items; I am still figuring
out what are meaningful concepts to count, but in CS-1 there are 1195
timestamped entries from Nov 2009--present, 163 meetings, an unknown
number of individuals, and an uncounted number of analytical memoranda.
I recorded more interactions between the CS-1 developer and the
government programme office as recently as this week; the developer,
as a SAP, cannot conceivably reduce costs further; their remaining staff
are overcommitted on R'' installations as it is, whereas the programme
office has identifiable inefficiencies and may cut staff soon.

For the next two weeks I have two overlapping tasks; SCAP compliance
research and thesis work.  I met with Dr Martin this week to report to
him in more detail what I discussed in the meeting with Dr Fléchais.
As I have been re-going through the records of CS1, this time with the
perspective from one of my informants about informal vs formal policies, I
read an interesting counterexample that challenges one of my assumptions.
In an old email from jwz (1998), he told of a discovery motion by
Microsoft for the entire contents of a personally maintained email list
on jwz's personally owned disk during a lawsuit involving Netscape.  As a
policy example it is important because unlike most this one is founded
on personal experience.  I described to Dr Martin my progress on CS-1
and we talked about the large size of the data and how that interacts
with grounded theory.  We talked about validating the model by taking
it back to informants; that is actually something I was successful with
before, with the prior physics-based model.  Dr Fléchais stressed that
documentation of those validation sessions is critical.

Afterwards I described a meeting with my Lockheed manager at which I was
asked urgently to research NIST SP 800-117, Security Controls Automation
Protocol (SCAP), a new requirement on every cross domain system in 2012
to report compliance with security controls in a standard format.  I can
leverage this request from Lockheed into a new gig in the second half
of 2012---just when I will be needing one---as an expert on SCAP just
when all the other CDS programme offices figure out they have a problem.
Dr Martin suggested I should publish an article about it, derived from
part of my thesis.

Miscellaneous: there is an unconfirmed report that DoD 8570.01 will be
renamed Directive 8140 soon; Change 3 of DoD 8570.01-M has been expected
for months, but remains unaccounted for.  I met with my manager at
Lockheed to review my 2011 performance assessment and set a date for
transition (2nd Jan).

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

