weekly activity report 219 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 15 December 2011 22:02 
To: Joe Loughry 
 
Weekly activity report no. 20111215.1433 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0219, week 8+2 MT

I have a provisional solution to the problem at the core of my thesis.
The SCAP protocol (NIST Special Publication 800-117) that I have been
researching for the R'' developer has some applications to certification
testing.  CDS developers and evaluators haven't figured it out yet,
but a SCAP-compliant CDS is capable of reporting SP 800-53 security
controls in such a form as to facilitate Beta 1 and Beta 2 (IV&V)
type testing.  I ran the idea past Dr Martin in a meeting Thursday.
In the same meeting, I drew an analogy to one of the findings in
the third Interim Report of the Air France 447 mishap investigation
board; I speculated that in the literature of Crew Resource Management
(CRM), principally developed in response to Eastern Air 401 in 1972,
I might find a useful model for explaining the events of CS-2, which
not unlike AF 447 flew a structurally sound and perfectly functioning
system into the ground.  The developer and validators in CS-2 similarly
had a reliable and well-tested system, but failed.  Dr Martin encouraged
me to follow the SCAP insight, because it is a solution to the problem,
but not to spend more time on the CRM idea, which is just an analogy.
I reported that I have been continuing to work through familiarisation
with the ATLAS.ti software, interrupted by some necessary paperwork for
health care insurance, but I should be proficient with ATLAS.ti after
this weekend.  I need to checkpoint the SCAP idea in enough detail that
I can pick it up later, after I finish coding CS-1--3.

I reported that the Air Force has put forth 6.3 funding for a follow-on
to probabilistic redaction, to take the system to accreditation; I felt
responsibility to help write a report for the PM who is going after that
proposal.  My college called to say they've received the GSO.15 form for
extension of time, but requested more detail on my schedule for finishing.
I sent the requested information to the academic affairs office in time
to get it processed before my Bodleian card expires.

Of seven chapters (plus appendices) in the Table of Contents, my current
task, under way now, is coding of Case Study 1 (CS-1) observations
into the ATLAS.ti software.  Size of task: 1195 events, 163 meetings,
involving 48 individuals.  Status of task: some entered, but I am still
learning what are the important connections to make.  I estimate that
completion of this task and the writing and approval of Chapter 3 will
be done by 15th February.  The second largest task is the coding of
CS-2 and writing of Chapter 4; this is expected to go more quickly and
it is a smaller data set, so I plan to finish Chapter 4 by 10th March.
CS-3 will commence 11th March and finish 30th March with a completed
Chapter 5 by 1st April.  Chapter 6, describing a solution to the problem
based on SCAP, will be completed before the beginning of week 1 of Trinity
term, 22nd April.  Chapters 1 and 2 are already written. I plan to write
the Conclusions chapter and assemble the appendices for submission and
examination in Trinity term.

The GSO.15 form instructions do stress that only one term of extension
should be applied for at a time, and I am following that recommendation.

Schedule:

15 Dec--15 Feb: coding of first case study in ATLAS.ti; write Chapter 3.

16 Feb--10 Mar: coding of second case study; write Chapter 4.

11 Mar--1st Apr: coding of third case study, analysis of all three case
studies; write Chapter 5.

2nd--22nd Apr: Chapter 6: A Solution to the Accreditation Problem
Using SCAP.

23rd Apr--6th Jun: Chapter 7 and appendices; submission of thesis to
the examiners.

I have another supervisor meeting scheduled for 21st December.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

