weekly activity report 222 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 06 January 2012 01:47 
To: Joe Loughry 

Weekly activity report no. 20120105.1810 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0222, week -1 HT

Presently working on Chapter 6, validation of SCAP compliance for cross
domain systems.  It is expected to be done by 11th January.  I met with
Dr Martin about the effort on Wednesday.  In writing it, I discovered a
new recommendation that solves one of the existing problems with the way
ST&E accreditation is continuously monitored after Beta 2.  I need to
update my thesis outline in light of the revised schedule, but haven't
had time.  We discussed using Google+ for multi-way video conferencing,
and I said I would get a suggestion out tomorrow to the Reading Group
mailing list for a paper for next week.  I need to meet with Dr Martin
briefly again next week, and thereafter with Dr Fléchais for a few
weeks when working on the analysis of CS-1.

I contacted the person in charge of accredited laboratory validation
of SCAP compliance testing at DIA. I am waiting for answers to some
questions I wrote to them regarding deadlines.  I spoke with the R''
developer's systems engineering manager one more time about the upcoming
re-certification event, which is forced by the sunset listing on the UCDMO
baseline in 2015.  The developer's main concern at this point is having
a certifiable security policy for the new OS, and the potential conflict
of interest between NSA's evaluation process and a subcontractor who
specialises in writing security policies for developers.  The government
programme office remains critically short of funding; the developer's
staffing level has been cut, and other departments in the facility are
similarly or worse affected.

DGS should be signing my University card renewal any day; my current
accesses expire at the end of next week.  I fixed some web site problems
for the Oxford University Scientific Society caused by the new year
rollover; today I met with Human Resources and the Engineering manager
at Lockheed and formally received notice.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

