weekly activity report 223 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 13 January 2012 02:22 
To: Joe Loughry 

Weekly activity report no. 20120112.1909 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0223, noughth week HT

I am having problems with the expiration date on my University card and
OUCS accounts.  A trouble ticket is open.

I met with Dr Martin this week.  I am contractually obligated to finish
a white paper for Lockheed on SCAP compliance for the automated guard,
but after next week I will be 100 percent on the coding task for Chapters
3 and 4.  I wrote the patent application for digital signatures in Radiant
Mercury this week; it will be filed before my last day with the company.
I met with the VP of Engineering and with HR last week and secured enough
funding to last through April; the only remaining detail is whether
I will have any health insurance.  Security debriefing is scheduled
for next week.  I am making good progress on describing my solution in
Chapter 6 and will be done with that part in a week.

Reading Group met to discuss the paper `Looking Back at the Bell--LaPadula
Model' by David E. Bell, from 2005.  It explains the reasons for several
apparently mystifying decisions in the TCSEC and Trusted Solaris 2.5.1,
such as the `compatibility' of ordered security levels in the file system,
something I always thought was backwards.  I gave the group an overview
of multi-level file systems and the software developer's perspective
on privileged processes.  The mystery of why Information Labels (IL)
disappeared between Trusted Solaris 2.5.1 and TSOL 8 was finally
cleared up by this paper.  It contains still-trenchant observations
on the practical difficulty of certification and accreditation and the
opportunity to place high-assurance gateways in the narrow lines between
almost-isolated networks.  In 2012, there is no meaningful distinction
between the intelligence community, Twitter, and Facebook; one decade's
optimisation is the next's performance bottleneck.

I discussed CybOX and IF-MAP protocols for security situational awareness
with Dr Martin this week; one of these protocols might be an extension
that I could report through the SCAP interface later on.  We talked about
covert channels in high assurance and multi-level operating systems.
Dr Fléchais is concerned about my lack of progress on coding; I need
to talk to him soon as soon as I finish my current obligation.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

