weekly activity report 235 (loughry) 
Joe Loughry 
Sent: 06 April 2012 03:45 
To: Joe Loughry 

Weekly activity report no. 20120405.1944 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0235, week -2 TT

Progress on CS-1 and -2 data analysis: I am working toward getting all
codes assigned to CS-1 (and common) data by the agreed estimate date.
The PDF file I sent to Dr Fléchais last week was not organised;
it contains different parts of the argument all mixed up.  I know
I need to send my supervisors a properly arranged re-drafting next
week; they asked for the file in progress, so I gave them that, but I
really need to go over the whole thing and give them a clean version
of the argument.  The structure of the dissertation is presently as
follows: after an introduction to cross domain systems and some history,
the data of case study 1 (how and why the DIACAP certification of R''
succeeded) using grounded theory analysis and case study 2 (how and why
the Common Criteria evaluation of R' failed) using the same analysis
method, relating observed events in both projects to some applicable
recommendations found in the literature of software engineering (software
development, high assurance [space systems and information security],
and safety critical systems), chemical engineering (for risk assessment
and process plant design and operation), and organisational behaviour.
The grounded theory is followed by a brief theoretical section showing
how accreditor behaviour is predicted by a model.  Finally, a proposed
solution to specific slowdowns observed in the first case study (not
really applicable to the second case study because the R' evaluation
did not proceed far enough) is described, using features available at
mandated support levels of the Security Content Automation Protocol
(SCAP) regulations for cross domain systems to be certified under DIACAP
after R''.  The continuous thread running through the argument is that
certain activities must happen and run to completion if this type of
project is to succeed, whereas certain other events, if not prevented
or stopped quickly after they begin, preclude successful completion;
in summary, experience from other fields can be applied to this one with
improved results.

Status: coding in ATLAS.ti and writing the argument described above.
I'll send a complete draft dissertation to Dr Fléchais and Dr Martin
for 15th April.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

