weekly activity report 242 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 25 May 2012 02:34
To:

Weekly activity report no. 20120524.1624 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0242, week 5 TT

Misconceptions held by the CDS developer and the programme office both
with regard to the certifier's process and procedures are evident in the
evidence between October 2009 and approximately May 2010.  ST&E processes
and procedures are much better understood by the developer and GPO because
of the close working relationship among installers, IV&V, site, and the
DAA representative during accreditation trips (physical proximity cannot
be ruled out as a contributing factor).  Communication among developer,
programme office, and the two independent groups comprising the certifier
is limited to fewer and higher-level people , leading to a communication
thermocline that always isolates a small group of people at the developer
who are actively working on CT&E inside a bubble along with the programme
office on one side of a barrier separating that group from the certifier.
Communication across the barrier is both formal and informal through
three channels: government-to-government, regularly scheduled telecons,
and draft reports.  It is this part of the evidence I am coding in
Atlas.ti at this time.  At the end of reading through all of the files
from CS-1 and C-2, 26 percent, in all, were found to be relevant.  I need
another week to work on coding.  Possibly relevant side issues that crop
up repeatedly include the developer's information retention policy, the
programme office's attitude toward contractor compliance with DoD 8570.01
and the effect that had on CT&E misconceptions, longevity of experienced
people on-programme, project manager turnover, and undependable funding;
some of these appear in the literature.

A new book on the history of defence acquisition was recently published
by the office of historical research (Converse, 2012); I had a talk
with the author and obtained a PDF of the whole book.  I need to have
a meeting with my supervisors to update them on progress to plan.
Estimated completion date of this phase of the data analysis is still
end of May.  GSS report due in two weeks.  I will have results to report
on the coding task in a few days.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

