weekly activity report 243 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 01 June 2012 01:11
To: Joe Loughry

Weekly activity report no. 20120531.1428 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0243, week 6 TT

I met with Dr Fléchais via Skype video to report progress on the
data analysis and interpretation leading to a satisfactory model.
I described the present hybrid method of working from paper to text
file to qualitative analysis tool.  We discussed the breadth and depth
of analysis necessary to satisfy internal and external examiners, and
the size of my data set.  Dr Fléchais gave me advice on sizing and
justifying my theory.  Notes on the development and convergence of my
theory are useful and should be preserved in the methodological section
of the dissertation.  I need to work on axial coding next; there are
more items in my data set that support the discovered relation between
processes & procedures and repeatable performance.

The R-prime developer, at initiation of the validation project, had
no process or procedures for preparing Common Criteria evaluation
documentation.  Normally this developer is entirely policy, process,
and procedure driven, in accordance with regular ISO and SEI audits.
The commercial testing laboratory neither imposed nor provided a process
or procedures beyond the formulae in CC Part 2 for enumerating security
assurance requirements for a particular evaluation assurance level.
The R' developer unsuccessfully attempted to resort to the common
evaluation methodology.  The lack of a protection profile has emerged
as a contributing factor, as was speculated very early on, but finally
we have evidence of it and a plausible mechanism.  Security functional
requirements, enclosed as they were by the evaluation boundary and
minimised by (1) inference from published certification reports and
security targets, (2) informed advice, and (3) common sense, were
well bounded.  In contrast to the prior result, while the NIST SP
800-37 certification of R-double-prime similarly lacked a defined and
proven process and procedures and could have suffered accordingly, the
certifier and developer were both aware of the fact that a post-DCID 6/3
cross domain certification had never been done before and consequently
worked together to a greater than normal extent to ensure the success
of the inaugural certification effort under the new criteria.  In fact,
it worked so well that we recommend future certifications use the same
process and develop policies and procedures from the observed sequence
of events.

GSS report will be submitted today.  I have a meeting booked in a week
with both supervisors to report finishing coding, I hope.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

