weekly activity report 244 (loughry)
From: Joe Loughry
Sent: 08 June 2012 01:24
To: Ivan Flechais; Niki Trigoni; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn

Weekly activity report no. 20120607.1654 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0244, week 7 TT

Looking for evidence of causal correlation in the data, some are apparent:
that relatively immature developer organisations---taking `organisation'
here to apply from the level of entire firms down to a project team,
at whatever level the purpose and scope of the of the organisation is
dedicated to a single security test and evaluation activity---immature
organisations are unoriented to policies, process, and procedures but
at the same time likely to be more adaptable to an imposed or supplied
process.  Mature organisations, defined here as those that are policy,
process, and procedure-oriented, fall into two categories, or at least
along a range from rigid to adaptable, and this appears from the data
to be at least partially orthogonal to the maturity level.  The normal
case, represented by the OWL data diode as a representative example,
is an immature developer working with an experienced testing laboratory;
as long as the developer is adaptable to the imposed process, evaluation
and certification activities proceed smoothly.  On the right hand side of
the chart, perhaps counter-intuitively, what appears to predict success
is not the maturity of the organisation but (at least weakly) more the
experience of the testing lab.  I talked with Dr Martin and Dr Fléchais
on Skype about it, and about the parallel with CMMI levels.  I speculated
that the origin of the reason for the difference might be in differences
between training and indoctrination of software engineers vs managers,
including the different populations of professional managers who went
to business school and engineers who switched tracks to management and
received engineer-to-manager transition training (a resource that may
be more available in larger organisations).  My supervisors cautioned
against spending any time looking for causation and instead recommended I
focus on finding and describing all the correspondences in the evidence,
to be explained later in a predictive fashion, ideally, but for now
only demonstrated to exist in the data.  I may have enough for a solid
theory already.  Good theories describe; great theories predict.  I got
advice on organising my argument for persuasiveness to the examiners.
Dr Fléchais asked about status of axial coding and open coding;
I requested one more week to finish the open coding and committed to
delivering by the 13th or 15th of June.  Following that, Dr Fléchais
and I need to work interactively on the model to identify weaknesses in
it and reinforce it before I go back to writing-up.

GSS report has been submitted.  Next meeting 20th June 2012 at 0600 local.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

