weekly activity report 245 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 15 June 2012 03:48
To: Joe Loughry

Weekly activity report no. 20120614.1846 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0245, week 8 TT

Looking for a formal definition of residual risk, I was forced to
return to Vaughan's (1996) conception of 'normalisation of deviance'.
That process, described as beginning construction of risk, followed by
'realisation of signals of potential danger', followed by an official act
acknowledging the elevated level of risk, a review of the evidence, and
another official act indicating formally the normalisation of deviance,
is mirrored in the data here by the series of project managers accepting
slippage of deadlines in the first CT&E evidence preparation activity;
so many software projects are delivered late that it seems nearly project
managers and programme managers too appeared to have been at least tempted
to conclude that it is simply characteristic of all software projects,
therefore not a variance.  After that determination happens, further
signals are learnt to be routine because they lie 'within the experience
base', and management shifts over time to accepting as normal a situation
that remains at variance with the specification.  Despite the catastrophe
in 1986 and the subsequent awareness that years of warning signs had
pointed to it, a similar thing occurred at NASA in 2003 resulting in
the loss of a second vehicle and crew from a different problem but the
same underlying mechanism.  It is apparent that residual risk must be
calculated from the familiar aggregate risk after all feasible corrective
actions have been taken, but not underestimating shifts in the baseline
of the inherent risk because of living with a chronic problem for years,
nor overestimating the effectiveness of deployed corrective actions that
might mask inherent risk with the promise of an unvalidated solution.
It is interesting that post-retirement examination of Space Shuttle
fuel flow liners---an inspection impossible to perform while the fleet
was operational---will finally yield information about the true level
of residual risk that was calculated but remained unverifiable for
decades (Freiherr, 2012).  It is also interesting to observe that the
aforementioned shortcomings of project management were observed not
to happen in the successful R-double-prime security evaluation a few
years later.

The series of project managers incumbent on the first R-prime
certification activity were hindered in their ability to measure
progress by a combination of poor intra-project status communication,
constrained inter-PM status communication (limited to historical reports
and old emails because of the lack of opportunity for the predecessor
to brief the new one), the large communication granularity of very
small software teams, and the previously identified mismatch between
instructions and training.  Right now I am looking at a series of org
chart updates from the period trying to confirm this with some kind
of evidence.  It is clear that the routine compartmentation of projects
in the R programme, duplicated over and over again at successive levels
in the organisation even outside the government classified programme
areas---probably because of the way the firm was assembled by merger
and acquisition of subsidiaries with existing projects and multi-year
contractual obligations---combined with inadequate project manager and
engineer training to all contribute to the breakdown in communications
of status information from Levels 3 to 5.  I have counterexamples from
the literature (Clark, 1972; Dequasie, 1991) showing that government
classification does not necessarily preclude intra- and inter-project
communication, but it is apparent that this freedom of association seems
to be all on the government side; this points to an improvement that could
be implemented, but only at the classified programme offices.  The model
now has to include the observed compartmentation and the work practices
necessarily forced by it, in addition to the previously identified
differences in adaptability of mature and immature organisations
to imposed processes, and the structural complexity of cross domain
security certification and accreditation in the presence of different
security clearances and classifications.  I am still working on open
coding of evidence.  Next meeting with Dr Fléchais is 20th June 2012
at 1300 Oxford time.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

