weekly activity report 246 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 22 June 2012 00:33
To: Joe Loughry

Weekly activity report no. 20120621.1622 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0246, week 8+1 TT

I met with Dr Fléchais this week and described new progress on figuring
out what happened on the older case study.  I reported gaps in the data of
the R-prime project records around 2006, and trouble I have been having
reconstructing org charts of the developer's structure with regard to
project manager tenure during the critical time.  In contrast with black
and white pictures we have of classified projects in the nineteen-forties,
recent projects risk ending up obscurely undocumented.  Declassification
of sensitive archives later on is impossible where photographs were never
taken in the first place.  Even a few photographs showing key people,
details of work areas and environment---procedures exist for covering
classified materials or putting a Post-It over the ID badges hung on a
chain around someone's neck, but the fact that everyone wore badges on
chains around their necks will be of interest to future researchers---this
record is completely lacking in every classified development organisation
I am aware of.  The few existing photographs, unclassified, are group
shots invariably done outside the closed area in front of scenic but
insignificant backgrounds.  Photographs showing cars parked outside a
building on a particular date, participants at a weekly staff meeting,
storage arrangements, or the inside of a software engineer's cubicle
are what is needed; these can be reviewed for release or stored with a
declassify-on date agreed to by the responsible authority.

We discussed for a while the compartmentalisation effects I have been
finding in the data.  I described what I found and what I thought it
signified and Dr Fléchais pointed out where I was confusing certain
qualitative differences between compartments.  I described the example
of Clark (1972) in the 1950s and 60s in which he acted as an information
switch---in a government office, but not as the programme office---among
multiple contractors who were prohibited by the usual corporate and
government security rules from communicating with each other directly
although they could communicate freely with Clark.  On several occasions
he made connections by telling one or another that a different researcher
had already solved one of their blocking problems.  In contrast, Dequasie,
writing in 1991, described compartmentalisation from the other side of the
communication channel; Dequasie was worked for one of the Navy contractors
at about the same time as Clark, though neither is mentioned by name
in the other book.  In my own data, the issue of the single evidence
developer on R-prime not communicating with his project manager because
of small team granularity of communication is not a compartmentalisation
issue of the same kind, in Dr Fléchais' opinion.  In a larger sense, it
seems to me the PMO in both case studies communicates with the developer
no more than the minimum possible, but it is not clear yet whether the
bandwidth constraint originates in security or availability of upstream
resources.  Evidence points to the contractor being conscientious and
effective in following NISPOM and national security regulations.  Do FARs
and company-specific export control penalties have anything to do with it?
I have made notes to investigate.

Skype video and audio quality on these calls continue to be very poor,
probably because of my network connection.  We switched briefly to
a Google+ hangout and that worked better.  I need to investigate
whether Hangout can do screen sharing which capability I need for our
next meeting.  I have a meeting booked for 11th July at 1400 BST, for
a couple of hours.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

