weekly activity report 249 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 13 July 2012 02:56
To: Joe Loughry

Weekly activity report no. 20120712.1508 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0249, week 8+4 TT

I met with Dr Fléchais for a couple of hours Wednesday via Google+
hangout on video.  We went over my complete list of categories I have
found in the codes applied to CS-1 and CS-2 from analysis of all the data
I have.  I began by reporting results of using ATLAS.ti as a store for
the codes associated with primary documents, but expressed frustration
over use of the network relation editor module, which continually
loses linkages and doesn't let me associate codes with interlocking
themes the way I want to.  I resorted to writing descriptions in the
DOT language because of the way I can take an existing file of text,
filter it minimally through sed, and immediately get a visualisation of
the network.  I described the patterns I've found as 'themes' rather
than the usual terminology of grounded theory methodology, but this
more accurately describes what I found in the data.  Inexperience of
certifiers, accreditors, testers, developer, government programme office,
and sites awaiting installation with the draft SP 800-53 security controls
and DIACAP process as it applied to cross domain solutions is the first
theme.  That one I knew about, but what is new is that relates to the
policy, process & procedures maturity measure I described here earlier.
Underfunding of the developer, and what results from it, is the second
theme; this is newly related to scheduling of installations, enhancements,
and certification in kind of a subtle way because it shapes some widely
held beliefs that the developer has about the programme office, further
suggesting a way to begin to explain a whole set of expressed beliefs in
the data that developers have about accreditors, the programme office has
about developers, professional security testers have about developers,
and certifiers and accreditors have about the programme office.  The last
theme is called 'culture of security', and the information transfer
that occurs from professional security testers to developers, through
leakage of the former group's store of specialised techniques through
the channel of findings, how the store is replenished, the nature of
the one-way information flow with an analogy to it being another cross
domain system, and suggestions for improvement.

What I have to do next is to to draw a diagram of how the themes interact
and to look for gaps in the theory, which emerges from the data but also
must explain ALL the data.  Dr Fléchais told me he is pleased with my
analysis and wants to see that diagram drawn and checked for coverage
of all the data right away.  I am working on it.  I asked for advice
on how to handle a particular piece of data and analysis that I need to
include but has origin, privacy, and confidentiality issues; I was given
a good way to handle it.  My current task is drawing up the one-page
overview and then checking that carefully for completeness and coverage.
Once I am convinced it has no gaps pointing to holes in the theory,
I will present it to my supervisors and I can finish it.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

