weekly activity report 250 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 20 July 2012 00:25
To: Joe Loughry

Weekly activity report no. 20120719.1549 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0250, week 8+5 TT

In a discussion this week, someone mentioned an old proverb related
to negotiation suggesting a plausible explanation for something I've
observed in the data in a number of places.  In certification testing
during the Beta 1 phase, both regression testers and pen testers
issue a series of finding reports; as described before, the range of
regression testing is circumscribed by functional requirements and
test procedures resulting in an upper bound on the number of findings.
Pen testers, however, are not constrained by functional requirements
and indeed properly extend the system under test to include connected
endpoints during Beta 2 phase.  Combined with the previously offered
isomorphism to covert channel analysis, the qualitative differences
between contractor regression testers and professional security testers,
the positive feedback mechanism identified in the accreditor model,
and negative feedback control from funding, the number of finding
reports issued by the pen testers is potentially unlimited but observed
to stop.  It was thought until now that the number of finding reports
issued was controlled solely by funding, but a supplemental hypothesis
suggested itself---one that is easily tested.  I have been looking at the
sequence of preliminary and final finding reports and the developer's
formal responses to those reports, during Beta 1 and Beta 2 phase, to
determine if it is true that a response always prompts a new report.
The proverb suggests it will happen (I have been unable so far to locate
a published source to cite for the rule) and it fits the accreditor model
of benign oversight by the DAA of the process of building up assurance
in the security of the system to the level where the DAA is willing to
formally accept responsibility better than purely funding control does.
Pulling data to test the hypothesis now.

Putting ALL the threads of the grounded theory that I have so far onto
a single page that shows how all interconnect is tricky.  I'll report
success when I have the process of transforming my HTML theme file
networks into Dot files working fully.  I am making continual small
changes to the format as needed to represent all the data in CS-1
and CS-2.  Meanwhile I helped out Mingqiu Song and Shamal Faily this
week with some things they needed.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

