weekly activity report 251 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 27 July 2012 00:54
To: Joe Loughry
 
Weekly activity report no. 20120726.1619 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0251, week 8+6 TT

The article 'Information Asymmetry in Classified Cross Domain System
Accreditations' was accepted by the Computer and Electronics Security
Applications 2012 conference to be held in Rennes in November.  The
conference is sponsored by the French DGA.  I am making changes to the
submitted paper to address reviewers' criticisms and use the LNCS format.
The camera-ready copy is due 17th Sept.  The content of this paper was
security reviewed by USG prior to submission the first time.  The only
substantial change I am making to it is to re-draw a figure to make it
more clear how non-hierarchical security classifications can possibly
be compared and to provide more details about level-of-risk comparison
where the threat environment may be very different on opposite sides.
The reviewers called out the description of mistrust between risk managers
in different security domains and the application of economic theory to
the problem as strong points.

Aside from that, I have been working on generating network relation
diagrams in graphviz from coded primary docs by source number, figuring
out how to handle anonymisation straightforwardly, some writing, and
trying to prove the proposition that it is either the developer or the
DAA, indirectly, who determine the residual findings that remain in the
final certification report, and not the professional security testers.
I am concerned about two things: falsifiability of that hypothesis,
and level of assurance that the observed correlation is not simply due
to chance.  The limited number of report/response cycles in the CS-1 and
CS-2 data fixes an upper bound on the possible significance.  I have an
idea for a time-line way of showing graphically the purported cause and
effect relationship including how the pen testers do not control it.  I am
working on that in parallel with finalising the primary data analysis.

I still owe a one-page illustration of all the themes in the grounded
theory and justification that the theory explains all available data to
my supervisors.  I'll report success when I have it working in Dot.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

