weekly activity report 257 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 07 September 2012 02:28
To: joe.loughry@stx.ox.ac.uk
Bcc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	carmenmoyer@hotmail.com; chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com;
	diane@dldrncs.com; joe.loughry@stx.ox.ac.uk; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net;
	hmbjuggler@yahoo.com; tom.a.marso@lmco.com

Weekly activity report no. 20120906.1616 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0257 week 8+12 TT

Chapter 3 is nearly done and Chapter 4 is in progress; it is not done yet
because I keep trying to write around forward references.  Similar to
the way I noticed and ceased counter-productive behaviour before, I
stopped trying to avoid forward references that might telegraph results
or conclusions in the methodology and data chapters; I will go back and
fix them later if I have time.  The examiners can point that out as a flaw
in the exposition.  I cut off the literature survey after the immediately
relevant development of certification and accreditation standards, current
standards, and grounded theory methods; the forward references became
a problem when it was necessary to explain why I was digressing into
engineering failure, safety critical & space systems, financial systems,
economics, sociology, and chemical engineering.  If I have time that
material can go back in.  The methodology should be short and simple but
the whole way I looked at the data changed significantly after I began.
Describing the methodology as if nothing in the approach ever changed
is dishonest; instead I describe how the methodology changed several
times in pursuit of the theory I finally discovered.  My thesis allows
developers and programme offices to predict the behaviour of accreditors
(and hence schedule) for the first time, and that is huge.  I am trying
to explain why it is so important, at the same time as countering every
possible objection and arguing that the theory does explain all the data.

Prompted by an email from my college, I filled out and sent a GSO.3
form for appointment of examiners to my supervisors today.  I realise
I am behind schedule on my writing plan.  I am trying to get caught up.
I still expect the next two chapters to go quickly and be finished soon.
The complete theory diagram that I owe to Dr Fléchais is not done yet
but I worked on it last night.  I will get that figure done as soon as
possible and sent but I am trying to get back on schedule.

Other tasks: I received a reminder that the CESAR conference needs the
final copy of their paper in ten days.  I have to make travel arrangements
for that trip soon.

Milestone 1: Chapter 1 (Introduction) due 14th August [done]
Milestone 2: Chapter 2 (Literature Review) due 19th August [late, done,
	not turned in yet]
Milestone 3: Chapter 3 (Methodology) due 23rd August [late, almost done]
Milestone 4: Chapter 4 (Case Study of a Successful Certification) due
	27th August [late, started]
Milestone 5: Chapter 5 (An Unsuccessful Common Criteria Evaluation) [late,
	started]
Milestone 6: Chapter 6 (Interpretation of Results) due 4th September
	[late, not started yet]
Milestone 7: Chapter 7 (Summary and Conclusion) due 8th September
Milestone 8: edit, rewrite, review by supervisors: last 2 weeks of
	September [reduced from 3 weeks]
Milestone 9: CESAR 2012 camera ready paper due 17th Sept.
Milestone 10: submit dissertation Monday, 1st October.

Status: finishing Chapter 3, working on 4 and 5.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

