weekly activity report 258 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 14 September 2012 05:41
To: Joe Loughry
 
Weekly activity report no. 20120913.1709 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0258 week -3 MT

In response to reviewers' comments on the C&ESAR 2012 conference paper,
I improved the argument by showing how every possible alternative in
a type 2 or type 3 accreditation forces the accreditor to communicate
in violation of security policy.  In certain cases, because of the
context supplied by differences in security clearance, it leaks even
more information than the accreditor wants to communicate; the analogy
to a covert channel is complete.  I sent the camera-ready paper to the
editor and put the new proof of the security property in Chapter 6.

Because of revising that paper to meet the earlier deadline, I made
progress on different chapters and out of order this week.  Chapter 3
is still not done but Chapter 6 gained much.  I met with Dr Martin on
Skype to talk about appointment of examiners and submission.  He helped
me with the forward references problem I had and I told him how the
focus is now on the theory, with much less emphasis on describing every
little event that happened in the case studies and more on the grounded
theory itself, because that theory is so exciting.  Totally unexpectedly,
I found a method through which the developer, for the first time ever,
can exert a small measure of control over the certification schedule, and
I found an equation that predicts the behaviour of accreditors.  The first
theory is grounded in the data of the case studies, and the second one is
supported by anecdotal evidence from installers and a mathematical proof.
Every cross domain system developer will be interested in this theory,
I think.  The whole thesis is being written around it now.  I will
be submitting on time; Dr Martin told me that submission by post is
perfectly possible and travel to Oxford just to deliver it to the Exam
Schools is not necessary.  After our meeting I got in contact with the
Research Degrees Examination Office and with the Oxford Print Centre;
they can take my PDF file by email, print and bind two copies and deliver
them to High Street.  That is a relief.

We talked about appointing an external examiner and Dr Martin requested
an abstract of the thesis to show to prospective examiners.  Ideally,
the external examiner would be someone familiar with certification and
accreditation, collateral classification, SCI, security clearances,
and CESG.  I sent out the abstract the same day.

I owe chapters to my supervisors in time for them to review them and
a graphical overview of the whole theory to Dr Fléchais as soon as
possible, basically now.

Milestone 1: Chapter 1 (Introduction) due 14th August [done but needs
	revising to highlight theory]
Milestone 2: Chapter 2 (Literature Review) due 19th August [late, done,
	not turned in yet]
Milestone 3: Chapter 3 (Methodology) due 23rd August [late, almost done]
Milestone 4: Chapter 4 (Case Study of a Successful Certification) due
	27th August [late, started]
Milestone 5: Chapter 5 (An Unsuccessful Common Criteria Evaluation)
	[late, started]
Milestone 6: Chapter 6 (Interpretation of Results) due 4th September
	[late, 90 percent done]
Milestone 7: Chapter 7 (Summary and Conclusion) due 8th September [late,
	not started]
Milestone 8: edit, rewrite, review by supervisors: last 2 weeks of
	September
Milestone 9: CESAR 2012 camera ready paper due 17th Sept [done and
	submitted]
Milestone 10: transmit PDF file to Oxford Print Centre for Monday, 1st
	October.

Status: I need to finish Chapter 3 tomorrow; working on 4 and 5; Chapter
6 is rough but nearly done.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

