weekly activity report 259 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 21 September 2012 03:44
To: Joe Loughry

Weekly activity report no. 20120920.1949 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0259 week -2 MT

I emailed a snapshot of the most current rough draft to Dr Martin and
Dr Fléchais.  The accreditor model predicts DAA behaviour during the
accreditation phase only in certain circumstances; I have a partly
completed diagram explaining what those circumstances are.  I think
at this point the best thing to do is to sketch out the remainder
of that figure in the least detail possible, then stop working on it
and focus on cleaning up the rest of the writing.  The corresponding
argument for certifiers is already done.  Chapters 3, 4, and 5 need the
most work; Chapters 1, 2, and 6 are in good shape; Chapter 7 needs a
conclusion, but I can take it from two other pieces I wrote this week.
The appendices have not been put together yet, but merely comprise a
list of references to PDF files that have already been generated and
are waiting in a directory.

I received an acknowledgement from the C&ESAR 2012 editor that he accepted
the revisions to my paper.  That means my proof that the accreditor model
is applicable to every case has been peer-reviewed.  I am claiming three
contributions in this dissertation: (1) the accreditor model---along with
a proof that it applies to all situations that can possibly arise and
that it meets the requirements for reliable signalling in the presence
of asymmetric information, (2) a method that gives cross domain system
developers a measure of control over the cost of CT&E, and (3) a system
that predicts accreditor behaviour during ST&E.  The latter two methods
only work in certain circumstances and the actual amount of control is
feeble, but it is a real effect and improves over what cross domain
system developers had before, which is no control at all.  And I can
define the exact conditions in which the effect works.

Status: to finish sketching out remaining cases for the accreditor model
so I can show everywhere it predicts and everywhere it fails to predict
anything.  Then clean up the earlier chapters, especially 3, 4, and 5.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

