weekly activity report 260 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 28 September 2012 04:26
To: Joe Loughry
 
Weekly activity report no. 20120927.2001 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0260 week -1 MT

I am convinced it is necessary to know the precise conditions under
which the accreditor model predicts information flow and where it makes
no prediction.  I met with my supervisors this week to discuss the issue.
They urged taking more time to further test the robustness of my argument
and to make the writing watertight before presenting it to the examiners.
I agreed to spend a few more months on it in order to submit a better
written dissertation at the end of the year.  My contributions are solid
and I have analysed the data sufficiently but they want me to think more
about what it all means before finishing the final draft.  I think I can
accomplish that by November.  I am going to keep working on it and send
PDF files to Dr Martin and Dr Fléchais more often.  I have to apply back
to the department for status within one year, but it should be approved
automatically once I have my thesis finished and ready to submit to the
examiners.  This week I have been working on a proof of the last result
I came up with---the most important of my results---which I need for the
thesis and also for some unspecified paperwork I need to file somewhere
else soon.  Dr Fléchais gave me advice on improving the grounded theory
argument in my thesis and Dr Martin helped me understand how and where to
show my results in the form of a mathematical proof.  Both of them showed
me how to reuse peer-reviewed material properly in writing chapters.

Dr Martin contacted the Computer Science department admin and my
college on my behalf to explain to them about the delay in submitting.
Registration opens next week for the C&ESAR 2012 conference in November;
I will make travel reservations for that after I get the location and
schedule information.  I have started sending out résumés and applying
for jobs in anticipation of finishing; I figure to have plenty of time
for writing and rewriting while waiting for interviews this autumn.
If no job offers are forthcoming pretty soon, I'll start writing the
software to turn these results into a startup.

Status: thesis submission delayed; working on a proof of the security
properties of the ST&E phase of C&A.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

