weekly activity report 261 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 05 October 2012 01:05
To: Joe Loughry

Weekly activity report no. 20121004.1512 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0261 noughth week MT

I have a proof (by cases) that the accreditor model identifies a
meaningful value for residual risk in every combination of exactly
two accreditors each having a collateral or SCI security clearance.
Two is the minimum number required for a cross domain system and more
than two does not add any interesting complications (although I need
to prove that).  International and uncleared accreditors, and sensitive
but unclassified information are handled as special kinds of SCI.  The
elaborated model has the advantage of encompassing Controlled Unclassified
Information (CUI); therefore it can be used for cross domain systems that
interface to healthcare, financial, or law enforcement domains in addition
to classified.  In accordance with the University's policy on Intellectual
Property (IP), I am completing forms IP1 and IP2.  Because the proof of
the security properties of the accreditor model was needed anyway for
Chapter 6, and all of the justification could simply be copied and pasted
from Chapter 4, not much extra time was spent to complete the forms.
I was provided several contact names of people I need to consult with
before the forms are sent in.  The GSO.15 form with new final submission
date was completed and sent to my supervisors last week.  I talked with
OUCS about my network access expiring this week; they deferred it to
give the college time to receive the extension notification from MPLS
and renew my card, so I will not be without access to the library.

New schedule for finishing: Chapters 4 and 5 are in outline and will be
finished during the month of October 2012.  A more detailed schedule
will be provided.  Chapter 7 has not been written yet but will be
completed in early November. The appendix consists of cross references
automatically generated into a directory of PDF files already generated
and waiting.  The proof I am writing now is the substance of Chapter 6.
Expected submission date of the final thesis is in the middle of November.
Draft copies of each unfinished chapter will be provided to my supervisors
for their review incrementally as the writing is completed.  The first
such draft, of the new Chapter 3, will be delivered 10th October 2012.
Current status: putting the proof into mathematical form and then to
look for holes in my argument and make the writing as watertight as I can.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

