weekly activity report 262 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 12 October 2012 02:29
To: Ivan Flechais; Niki Trigoni; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn

Weekly activity report no. 20121011.1842 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0262 first week MT

I found an ambiguous case in the proof of the security properties of
the accreditor model that occurs when two non-collateral accreditors
disagree on which security controls can be implemented because each
has knowledge of a different classified threat with an associated but
unpublished mitigation.  This is actually a situation that comes up
not infrequently between agencies of the same government when multiple
agencies perform original CNA research, which several do.  I am working on
finding a way out of it.  On the question of whether a third accreditor
contributes any essential utility beyond two, I am still thinking about
that.  I have found no counterexample where it leads to deadlock or an
unexplainable blocking of information flow.  Regarding that, I found
an interesting interpretation of gradients across the Venn diagram that
intuitively shows the direction of flow of information.  I have requested
a supervisor meeting a few days from now to get feedback on the idea.
I will draw some clearer figures before Monday to show it working.

Also this week I have been emailing back and forth with the OUCS help
desk and my college office about enrolment registration and my computer
accounts expiring.  OUCS registration services have kindly extended
the expiration of my network accounts once already, and as soon as the
form arrives in the MPLS graduate division office, their database will
be updated and I can complete student registration.  I heard from Julie
Sheppard and Dr Martin yesterday that the GSO.15 form was approved and
processed through the department.  I have started writing a presentation
for the C&ESAR 2012 conference next month, and got travel reservations
done.  Next task is to deliver a complete Chapter 6 to my supervisors
this upcoming week, followed by chapter 4 and 5.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

