weekly activity report 263 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 19 October 2012 03:26
To: joe.loughry@stx.ox.ac.uk
Bcc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	carmenmoyer@hotmail.com; chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com;
	diane@dldrncs.com; joe.loughry@stx.ox.ac.uk; mmcauliffesl@comcast.net;
	hmbjuggler@yahoo.com; tom.a.marso@lmco.com

Weekly activity report no. 20121018.1924 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0263 week 2 MT

I saw some notes from the ISPAB meeting in Washington, D.C. last
week about medical device security patch compliance.  Manufacturers of
therapeutic and diagnostic systems, the ISPAB were told, balance liability
risk against the cost of recertification and typically come down on the
side of prohibiting sites from updating COTS operating system software
for fear of triggering decertification of the device---mirroring similar
restrictions on cross domain devices rooted in analogous reasoning.
In both instances the root cause is the cost of certification, and the
result is the presence of more vulnerabilities in operational sites,
thereby adding to the amount of residual risk that is hidden from
certifiers in both the healthcare and cross domain areas and from some
(but not necessarily all) of the accreditors in the cross domain area.
I added it to the list of accreditor behaviour prediction scenarios and
I am trying to figure out where it fits.  It does not exactly fit the
mould but it might work to replace the low side accreditor in a cross
domain system accreditation with an attacker in the health care scenario.

This week I had a discussion with a cross domain solutions programme
manager at one vendor about remote system security assessment tools.
I proposed a SCAP-compliant common interface for reporting C&A evidence
that would work like SNMP but would return an fMRI.  We talked about
authentication requirements on that console and NSA's RSSA project that
uses Python.

My remote access and email accounts have been renewed by OUCS for the
duration and I am registered.  I worked on the methodology chapter that
has been hanging fire while I concentrated on the accreditor security
argument.  I have a meeting with Dr Fléchais booked Monday.  I am
thinking about my schedule for finishing.  I need to complete chapters
3 and 6 with the new information before going back to finish 4 and 5.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

