weekly activity report 264 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 26 October 2012 04:56
To: Joe Loughry

Weekly activity report no. 20121025.2020 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0264 week 3 MT

In our meeting earlier this week, I discussed with Dr Fléchais
the applicability of my accreditor model to be able to predict
certifier--attacker information leakage from security vulnerability
analysis during certification of regulated medical diagnostic and
therapeutic devices.  I have been ill with a head cold all week but
working.  Before I can do anything else I need to work out the direction
and magnitude of two arrows I have been calling on the diagram for
each of the SCI (or SCI-like) configurations of two accreditors having
non-comparable security clearances and different amounts of knowledge
of the security risks and risk mitigations from each perspective.
Collateral accreditations lack this property.  Dr Fléchais drew my
attention to another instance of imbalance of responsibility in the case
of medical device certification: certification cost is borne entirely
by the vendor but benefits users.  I noted that cross domain solution
developers also bear the cost of certification and recertification,
but the C&A authorities of cross domain systems are cognisant of the
need for patch management and have built in time limits on certification
(UCDMO sunset list) and accreditation (three year limit on ATO) that are
designed to take obsolete equipment out of circulation on a schedule.
The obvious balancing force in the certification of medical devices is
the threat of litigation, which affects equally the developer and user
but does not apply so far to cross domain systems.  I can write about
this in my conclusions.

I have been thinking about how to explain it to an audience next month.
Dr Fléchais pointed out several interesting consequences of my research
that I had not appreciated, but cautioned not to expand the scope.
We talked about how to simplify the characterisation of unintended and
uncontrollable information flows in cross domain accreditations: it
reduces to either three or four general statements: either there exists
or does not exist a classified threat I am not cleared for, and either
there exists or does not exist a risk mitigation I am not cleared for.
(The null possibility is that the residual risk is exactly what it
appears to be.)  Another interesting consequence is that if present
rules for clearances and classifications are followed to the letter,
then information leakage must occur, but if those rules are bent
slightly in the interest of convenience, as usually occurs, then no
potential difference exists and consequently there is no unintended
flow of information.  The additional cost of clearing accreditors to a
common high level probably does not exceed the savings from elimination
of scheduling difficulties in accreditations.  It could also be said
that current practice, formalised by Bell--LaPadula from something
that evolved, which at first glance looks both wrong and inefficient,
is actually an essential quality and a necessary cost if security is to
be preserved.  (I still need to prove that it is true for all SCI and
SCI-like configurations.)  We talked about other possibilities inducible
from either positive or null behaviour or statements.  We talked about
ow to write up this theoretical contribution in the conclusions section.

I have a meeting with Dr Fléchais tomorrow.  I am thinking about my
schedule for finishing.  I need to complete chapters 3 and 6 with the
new information before going back to finish 4 and 5.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

