weekly activity report 265 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 02 November 2012 02:13
To: Joe Loughry

Weekly activity report no. 20121101.1923 (GMT-6) sequence no. 0265 week 4 MT

I met with Dr Fléchais last Friday for a discussion.  I reported
that I have been working out exactly what the unintended and
uncontrollable---that is, forced---information flows are, pointing to
examples of each of the theoretical instances if I can find them in
my data.  I believe I have both kinds, but I want multiple examples of
each type if possible.  I described a couple of the practical examples
and solicited advice on the appropriateness of classing each as forced
or unintended.  The perennial disagreement between developer and
certifier over the risk of one particular channel type is an example,
vs intra-developer conversations during or after telecons with the
certifier during R'' certification when the phone was muted.  I am
still unsure whether I should characterise the developer's speculation
about certifiers' motives as an unintended information flow.  I believe
a much stronger case can be made for forced information flows, where
an observer or participant armed with a certain amount of knowledge
can deduce reliably from the fact that the other side does not say
anything the truth of certain information.  Ironically, the absence of
explicit communication makes the argument logically stronger.  Part of the
problem is that most of the accreditor--accreditor cases in the model are
`SCI-like' where there is no clearly defined high side.  There are two
high sides, from different perspectives.

Yesterday in another meeting we discussed my diagram combining a
high-level sequence of events from each of the case studies, overlaid onto
developer and certification authority life cycle activities, and showing
how data flowed into both models and recommendations or predictions
emerged.  I knew the diagram was overcomplicated but Dr Fléchais advised
how to simplify it.  He showed me the type of figure he needs to see
at this point and I promised to draw them up.  I am using graphviz
today to try to generate them from my coding files and theme notes,
treating it like a process flow diagram where inputs and interactions
are those actually observed in the data, not what they are `supposed'
to be by the C&A process.  For example, the problem afflicting CS-2 was
what I am calling `non-proportional servo feedback'; in control theory,
it causes hunting behaviour, which is what was observed in the data.
If the system can adapt to compensate, it may do so by increasing the
amount of hysteresis, which in CS-2 was operationalised by a slowdown
in the rate of delivery of work packages.

I went to the doctor today for antibiotics to treat the sinus infection
that has laid me low.  We talked about different standards of proof and
where each is used in the structure of a dissertation.  We are going
to iterate these meetings several times before I have to travel to a
conference in a few weeks.  I need to complete chapters 3 and 6 with
the new information before going back to finish 4 and 5.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford
