weekly activity report 268 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 22 November 2012 21:13
To: Joe Loughry

Weekly activity report no. 20121123.1327 (GMT+1) sequence no. 0268 week 7 MT

My presentation at the 19th C&ESAR conference in Rennes, France went well.
I gave a talk on 'Information Asymmetry in Classified Cross Domain
System Accreditation' via simultaneous translation to an audience of
mostly French speakers.  Half the people here seem to be from DGA-MI.

I am not the only one thinking in terms of a market for risk; at least two
different speakers from HP Labs mentioned signalling and market failure
in the context of using TPM for cloud security.  Dr Simon Shiu from HP
Labs in Bristol came up to me afterwards and said he liked my talk.
He works with economists at HP and Newcastle University and got very
excited when I mentioned information asymmetry, risk arbitrage, and
a market for risk.  Their approach is to hedge information security
risk by means of insurance, the problem becoming how to value risk and
threat mitigations to correspond with amounts of insurance coverage.
He is concerned about market failure when insurance providers refuse
to sell insurance or cloud providers refuse to buy it because they see
no benefit or believe they are somehow shielded.  I told him I had been
thinking about a different problem with risk markets; that of arbitrageurs
with options on asymmetric information who might accidentally exacerbate
the risk environment of a cross domain system, making it worse.  It could
happen if incentives are non-linear at extremes of scale, either in time
or magnitude.  I got Dr Shiu's card and promised to keep in contact.
Prof. Mark Ryan from Birmingham came over to ask me what I planned
to do after I finish my PhD.  He told me about a startup they founded
about a year ago, and we had an interesting discussion about patents
and business methods.

Presenters here are aware of the existence of homomorphic encryption,
but generally dismissive of it for solving cloud security problems.
Prof. Ryan pointed out the real problem with Gentry's FHE---which is
not performance---rather, it hides a little too much information from
the cloud provider, making certain types of database queries cumbersome.

I got validation of the key ideas in my grounded theory.  I still owe that
set of figures to Dr Fléchais showing how all the parts of my theory are
grounded in the data, and a meeting as soon as I get back from travel.
I am working on it tonight and tomorrow before I have to catch a train
to Paris early.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

