weekly activity report 280 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 15 February 2013 00:03
To: joe.loughry@stx.ox.ac.uk
Bcc: otaschner@aol.com; anniecruz13@gmail.com; andrea@hpwtdogmom.org;
	carmenmoyer@hotmail.com; chip.auten@comcast.net; edloughry@aol.com;
	diane@dldrncs.com; joe.loughry@stx.ox.ac.uk;
	mmcauliffesl@comcast.net; hmbjuggler@yahoo.com; tom.a.marso@lmco.com

Weekly activity report no. 20130214.1632 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0280 week 5 HT

I applied to four job postings this week at Booz Allen and Boeing.
It was interesting to compare the résumé parsers used at almost all
of these sites; to apply for a job now it requires you to upload a
résumé, which is parsed and used to pre-fill fields in a web form.
The Boeing parser was more accurate than Booz Allen's.  The Booz parser
consistently misidentified ligatures in words like 'certification' and
'difficulty', which is interesting because I specifically generated that
PDF file with text attributes on the extended characters.  That suggests
the Booz parser is looking at letterforms, not text, possibly even doing
OCR on uploaded files (for security reasons?).  It gave me the idea for
crafting a résumé for maximum compatibility with automated parsers to
try to reliably set as many search bits as possible on the other side,
while still being readable by a human.  I am working on that improvement,
and then will apply for another batch of jobs with it.

Deadline for abstracts for the HST13 conference in Boston is 15th March.
I am reading a book this week on speaking and presentation (Berkun,
2010) in anticipation of my viva.  I met for lunch with the IT security
director of OppenheimerFunds to network; he encouraged me to join ISACA
and come to their monthly meetings.  Still working on one conference
paper, one journal paper, and the UK student visitor visa application.

Reading Group met this week to discuss a preprint paper on protocol
analysis.  I think the method has similar potential to use of static
analysis in pre-build CM checking on high assurance programmes.  I am very
glad to be back in Reading Group; I missed going to it when I was writing.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

