weekly activity report 282 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 01 March 2013 00:55
To: Joe Loughry
 
Weekly activity report no. 20130228.1656 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0282 week 7 HT

I have a very rough draft of the new paper on a proposed explanation
for certain accreditor behaviour based on risk gradients.  It yields a
relative magnitude and something like a direction for the accreditor's
tolerance of residual risk in a cross domain system; it ought to add
like vectors.  Abstracts are due 15th March; meanwhile this week I emailed
people I know at Booz Allen Hamilton, Ernst & Young, Deloitte, and Tresys.
I am in the process of applying to job postings at Orbital Sciences Corp.,
General Dynamics, Northrup Grumman, and Harris.

Reading group this week discussed `Practicality of Accelerometer Side
Channels on Smartphones' by Aviv, et al. from ACSAC'12 last December.
The most important contribution of this paper was controlled experiments
on accelerometer readings from several phones taken while seated and
walking from a statistically significant number of participants at the
$p<0.01$ level.  I mentioned a blog posting by Nick Berry titled `PIN
number analysis' in the context of adding another layer of prediction of
likely PIN values to the machine learning portion of the paper to improve
guessing effectiveness.  It was suggested that a method combining the
accelerometer data with a very old paper on `Identity Verification
through Keyboard Characteristics' could improve the security of PIN
entry through assurance that the expected person is entering a PIN.
It connects in a way to the authors' observation in Section 5 of the
paper that participants learned the test PINs and gestures in the
course of the study; an attacker trying guessed PINs would likely have
a different pattern of entry.  We talked about other sensors that might
be exploited or synthesised from existing hardware, and about defences
including use of sound or vibration transducers during PIN entry to
reduce the bandwidth of the covert channel, designing in covert channel
bandwidth reducing features like jitter and noise to the sensor inputs,
and Andrew Paverd described some of Webinos's research into environment
binding, an extension of time binding protocols.  I speculated that
environment binding could decide whether or not to prompt for a PIN based
on evaluation of whether it seems safe or desirable to enter a PIN, given
the perceived safety of the physical security environment around the user.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

