weekly activity report 288 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 12 April 2013 00:15
To: Joe Loughry
Weekly activity report no. 20130411.1537 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0288 week -1 TT

The method described in last week's report is not working yet.  If I can
get it working soon, preliminary results previously relegated to future
work (the prediction functionality of the accreditor model) can go into
the IEEE paper as the deadline for submissions has been moved back to May.

My viva has been confirmed for 29th April at 2:00 PM local time.
Travel arrangements made; arriving in Oxford probably Friday.  To conserve
funding, I am planning to stay in the city for a while after to complete
the necessary revisions instead of flying back again.

Reading group met to discuss a recent paper on the Common Criteria.
I dislike the author's argument.  The CC is struggling for
extra-governmental acceptance, but the author's suggestion to further
Balkanise the mutual recognition agreement would make the situation worse,
and misses the real problem which is the de facto grading of evaluation
quality that emerged from underfunding of national schemes combined with
time-and-materials employment of commercial evaluation labs by developers.
Ironically, the amount of security testing being done has grown but
quality is down, and the evidence is visible in evaluator shopping.
Evaluators have abrogated their responsibility and given it to the labs,
who were happy to take it because they charge for validation by the hour.
The solution, however, is not as the author proposes to formally recognise
the differences in quality existing between supposedly equivalent EAL
certificates at any given level, but to return the responsibility for
evaluation---not merely validation---to the national schemes, and to
enforce a consistency of quality within evaluation assurance levels,
a function that the EU is demonstrably well equipped to perform.
We discussed a follow-on paper in IEEE Security & Privacy.

Beginning to prepare for viva.  I have a meeting booked with Dr Martin
on 19th April at 1400 Oxford time.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

