weekly activity report 305 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 09 August 2013 02:00
To: Joe Loughry

Weekly activity report no. 20130808.1801 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0305 week 8+8 TT

My college administrator sent me a copy of the viva results report
received there; the report is dated 24th July. The examiners' comments
are unchanged but now I finally have the administration's deadlines for
responses and follow-up. I sent a reply and an email to Mrs Hames in the
exam schools as requested in the letter. The marked-up examiner's copy
of my thesis is also on its way here via DHL. I have been rewriting and
adding more justification to certain parts of the argument for a week;
new citations to journal articles in support of the conjecture that
government security testers behave like knowledge-intensive firms in
that their 'capital' is necessarily esoteric and they leak information,
which Starbuck (1992, 2010) noted places them at risk of destroying
their primary asset, but missed the difference between KIFs and security
attacks, which can be replenished at the cost of original research, not
more people, either by the same group or as an exclusive exchange with
others. Replenishment of leaked capital is an interesting extension of
earlier results in the literature. Separately, I found an effective
technique to show when the effect of moderating variables is both
intensified and weakened; I am applying that to the part of the thesis
describing informal channels observed and forerunner communication in
the grounded theory.

Reading group this week did the paper on TPM for sensors by Saroiu and
Wolman (HotMobile 2010). The most interesting part of the paper seemed to
be at the end where non-transferability of trusted sensor readings could
be achieved through witness-hiding proof-of-knowledge protocols. How it
is done might be the subject for next reading group.

I am still working head-down and will report progress again in a few days.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

