weekly activity report 317 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 01 November 2013 05:49
To: Joe Loughry
 
Weekly activity report no. 20131031.2222 (GMT-6) sequence no. 0317, week 3 MT

I have continued to stick to discipline of writing and checking into
GitHub on my thesis every day for the past twelve days. I just finished
checking all the references. Because of the conference presentation
that is due in a few days, I have been working mostly in Chapter 6 this
week. I have also been talking with Shamal about part of the certifier
model. I am still keeping track of exactly how all my time is spent
during the day in a log; sysadmin tasks (because of an email problem)
were a large amount this week.

Reading group met to discuss the paper 'Provenance, End-User Trust and
Reuse: An Empirical Investigation' by Donaldson and Fear [3rd USENIX
Workshop on the Theory and Practice of Provenance, 2011]. The second
research question in the paper essentially asks, 'would you trust the
data in this repository enough to use it for your own research?' which
is akin to signing another's PGP key; by doing so you are attesting
to it. I made a quick graph of the data in one table and held it up
for the others in reading group to see; I'd have expected a Poisson
distribution from a Likert scale, but this looks more like a power
law. That was surprising and suggests problems with their data, or that
there is another conclusion in there that the authors missed. Justin
pointed out that 'it takes different information to say "yes" than to say
"no"---this is the basic idea of security asymmetry.' Another interesting
paper came out this week, from MIT: 'Towards Optimization-Safe Systems:
Analyzing the Impact of Undefined Behavior' by Xi Wang, et al. (SOSP'13,
to appear). It is relevant to cross domain system testing because it
challenges the foundation of secure deployment; if the authors' idea
of 'optimisation-unstable code' can be made to change behaviour with
changes in environment, then this ties into a discussion I had this
week with Shamal Faily about ethics of penetration testers and the
tension they experience because of information flow that results in
them having to replenish their stock of attacks via either purchase or
original research. I asserted that the former explains two recent bits
of evidence in Edward Snowden's disclosures: the purchases by NSA of
0-days from France, and development effort by NSA of covert attack vectors
(DEWSWEEPER) [Le Monde, 21st Oct 2013]. While not completely persuasive,
it is at least a plausible explanation.

I have to finish my conference presentation for Boston which is due in
a week. Computer accounts for the Oxford University Scientific Society
have been renewed for another year. I intend to have the thesis finished
and submitted before end of term.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

