weekly activity report 324 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 20 December 2013 02:44
To: Joe Loughry

Weekly activity report no. 20131219.1909 (GMT-7) sequence no. 0324, week 8+2 MT

Chapter 5 is where the main application of grounded theory methodology
is in the thesis. As it was the first time DIACAP had been applied to
certification testing of a CDS, the selection of ICD 503 principles
and SP 800-53 security controls was pivotal. The developer and the
IV&V contractor collaborated on this portion at first---at the request
of the certifier---which on the surface appears to be a conflict of
interest but was probably justified by the location of subject matter
expertise. At any rate, it yielded results good enough to be used; the
resulting collection of security controls and risk management framework,
having been validated by the first certification and accreditation by
DISA, are de facto the new criteria and expected to be codified in the
next update of the instruction.

In claiming that the accreditor model is flexible enough to be applied to
health care problems, consider that insurance companies act a bit like
foreign intelligence agencies. It is not far off the mark, if you take
into account all of their motivations. The problem reduces to an SCI-like
or international cross domain system accreditation with non-cooperating
data owners.

I am still working on Ch. 5 including new figures where needed to show
important relationships and justify identification of implicit information
flows. I will email this last difficult chapter to my supervisors before
Christmas. I went back and updated some details in Chapter 3 after I
found comments I had left in the source of Chapter 5 on the examiners'
criticism. I have a list of thesis components remaining to be updated,
including CS-2, interpretation, conclusion, Appendix A, Appendix B,
and index.

Other activity: student visa paperwork delayed by other
priorities. Working on Chapter 5 to send next week.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

