weekly activity report 369 (loughry)
Joe Loughry
Sent: 31 October 2014 05:50
To: Ivan Flechais; Niki Trigoni; Andrew Martin; Joanna Ashbourn

Weekly activity report no. 20141030.1945 (GMT-6) sequence no. 0369, week 3 MT

I have been writing about the way the engineers on the programme responded
to demands from the certification authority, instructions from the
programme manager, and direction from the COTR; in light of technical
problems, schedule, resources, and effort. The government's penetration
testers are, for this purpose, equivalent to the developer's engineers
(they behave the same, always). Both groups are characteristic of Mills'
observations of 'scientists' in the 1940s; 'executives' are the same as
in Mills' time, but there is no longer any equivalent of 'labour' in this
mapping. (I thought I had a good comparison in the USAF's 'Big Safari',
which successfully produced the RJ and Compass Call, but it didn't
work.) The grounded theory is coming together.

Reading group discussed last week's paper on robustness for OpenFlow
controllers by Seungwon Shin, et al. (ACM CCS'14, to appear). OpenFlow
controllers are like cross domain systems, in some ways, but different;
they effect a hardware separation between the Control Plane and the Data
Plane, and enforce separation, but at the same time expect that end users
will want to run their own local monitoring and adaptive routing algorithms
in the Control Plane, something that never happens in (existing) cross
domain solutions.

This week's reading group is on cryptography but I have to miss it. I read
the paper anyway, on a blockwise chosen boundary attack against HTTPS. The
attack requires at most 2^8 messages to a decryption oracle (via CSRF) in
order to deduce m[1] of the payload, by using the chosen boundary attack
to ensure that all but the last byte of block P are known (Duong and Rizzo,
unpublished, 2011).

Continuing to work in the basement of the public library; I make good
progress when I can't get to email.

Joe Loughry
Doctoral Student in the Department of Computer Science
St Cross College, Oxford

